controls/treelist/appearance-and-styling/skins.md, before:

---
title: Skins
page_title: Skins | RadTreeList for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Skins
slug: treelist/appearance-and-styling/skins
tags: skins
published: True
position: 0
---

# Skins



RadTreeList uses skins to control its overall look-and-feel. A skin is a set of images and a CSS stylesheet that can be applied to the control elements (items, images, etc.) and defines their look and feel. By default all controls in UI for ASP.NET AJAX suite have a polished look and feel which is consistent across the whole product line.

## Built-in skins

These are the skins provided by Telerik. They are embedded in the Telerik.Web.UI.dll assembly as web resources. To use a built-in skin the user only needs to set the **Skin** property of the control. Built-in skins are also provided in "C:\Program Files\Telerik\UI for ASP.NET AJAX QX 20XX\Skins".

Below is a set of the Telerik RadTreeList skins:
![RadTreeList Skins](images/treelist-skins.png)

>note With Q2 2011 release of UI for ASP.NET AJAX RadTreeList has four new skins (Transparent + Office2010 variations). To use them you should add the Telerik.Web.UI.Skins assembly to your Bin folder. For more information refer to [this blog post](http://blogs.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/posts/11-07-05/new-telerik-ajax-skins-assembly.aspx).
>Since Q3 2011 all the built-in skins (except the Default one) have been relocated to the Telerik.Web.UI.Skins.dll assembly.Also new Metro skin has been added for RadTreeList.
>Since Q1 2013 three new skins have been added for RadTreeList(BlackMetroTouch, Glow and Silk).
>


## Custom skins

These are skins created by the developer. They are not embedded so the control cannot register them automatically. If you use a custom skin you need to set the **Skin** property, and the **EnableEmbeddedSkins** property of the treelist control to **false**. If you do not do so, an exception will be thrown saying that there is no embedded skin matching the Skin property.

Examine the [Creating a custom skin]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/controlling-visual-appearance/creating-a-custom-skin%}) help topic for additional information.

Commit message:

add not that Material skin is available in LWR mode only

controls/treelist/appearance-and-styling/skins.md, after:

---
title: Skins
page_title: Skins | RadTreeList for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Skins
slug: treelist/appearance-and-styling/skins
tags: skins
published: True
position: 0
---

# Skins



RadTreeList uses skins to control its overall look-and-feel. A skin is a set of images and a CSS stylesheet that can be applied to the control elements (items, images, etc.) and defines their look and feel. By default all controls in UI for ASP.NET AJAX suite have a polished look and feel which is consistent across the whole product line.

## Built-in skins

These are the skins provided by Telerik. They are embedded in the Telerik.Web.UI.dll assembly as web resources. To use a built-in skin the user only needs to set the **Skin** property of the control. Built-in skins are also provided in "C:\Program Files\Telerik\UI for ASP.NET AJAX QX 20XX\Skins".

Below is a set of the Telerik RadTreeList skins:
![RadTreeList Skins](images/treelist-skins.png) 


 @[template - Material skin is available only in Lightweight mode](/_templates/common/skins-notes.md#material-only-in-lightweight) 



>note With Q2 2011 release of UI for ASP.NET AJAX RadTreeList has four new skins (Transparent + Office2010 variations). To use them you should add the Telerik.Web.UI.Skins assembly to your Bin folder. For more information refer to [this blog post](http://blogs.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/posts/11-07-05/new-telerik-ajax-skins-assembly.aspx).
>Since Q3 2011 all the built-in skins (except the Default one) have been relocated to the Telerik.Web.UI.Skins.dll assembly.Also new Metro skin has been added for RadTreeList.
>Since Q1 2013 three new skins have been added for RadTreeList(BlackMetroTouch, Glow and Silk).
>


## Custom skins

These are skins created by the developer. They are not embedded so the control cannot register them automatically. If you use a custom skin you need to set the **Skin** property, and the **EnableEmbeddedSkins** property of the treelist control to **false**. If you do not do so, an exception will be thrown saying that there is no embedded skin matching the Skin property.

Examine the [Creating a custom skin]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/controlling-visual-appearance/creating-a-custom-skin%}) help topic for additional information.
