controls/dataform/mobile-support/fluid-and-elastic-capabilities.md, before:

---
title: Fluid and Elastic Capabilities
page_title: Fluid and Elastic Capabilities | RadDataForm for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Fluid and Elastic Capabilities
slug: dataform/mobile-support/fluid-and-elastic-capabilities
tags: fluid,and,elastic,capabilities
published: True
position: 0
---

# Fluid and Elastic Capabilities

**RadDataForm** control provides elastic and fluid capabilities which allow keeping the control’s component proportion on different mobile devices.

## Fluid capability

By default **RadDataForm** expands to take all the available space in its container (100% of the container) which makes it **Fluid**.

If you want the form to expand based on the content then add **rdfInlineBlock** class to the wrapper div element

## Elastic capability

**Elastic behavior** - the form itself and the text in it (label and field hint text, as well as their margin and paddings) are scalable based on the base font size.

To change it you can use the code snippet below:

````ASPNET
<style type="text/css">
    div.RadDataForm
    {
        font-size: 15px;
    }
</style>
````

>note RadDataForm does not take care of the metrics of the controls that are place in it. This means that if you simply change its font-size that won’t affect the child controls in the template. They should be handled manually.
>

Commit message:

Updated Elastic design articles with lack of default font size

controls/dataform/mobile-support/fluid-and-elastic-capabilities.md, after:

---
title: Fluid and Elastic Capabilities
page_title: Fluid and Elastic Capabilities | RadDataForm for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Fluid and Elastic Capabilities
slug: dataform/mobile-support/fluid-and-elastic-capabilities
tags: fluid,and,elastic,capabilities
published: True
position: 0
---

# Fluid and Elastic Capabilities

**RadDataForm** control provides elastic and fluid capabilities which allow keeping the control’s component proportion on different mobile devices.

## Fluid capability

By default **RadDataForm** expands to take all the available space in its container (100% of the container) which makes it **Fluid**.

If you want the form to expand based on the content then add **rdfInlineBlock** class to the wrapper div element

## Elastic capability

**Elastic behavior** - the form itself and the text in it (label and field hint text, as well as their margin and paddings) are scalable based on the base font size.

@[template](/_templates/common/font-size-notes.md#note-and-example "control: RadDataForm")

>caption **Example 2**: You can use the code snippet below to change only the font-size of **RadDataForm**:

````ASPNET
<style type="text/css">
    div.RadDataForm
    {
        font-size: 15px;
    }
</style>
````

>note RadDataForm does not take care of the metrics of the controls that are place in it. This means that if you simply change its font-size that won’t affect the child controls in the template. They should be handled manually.
>

# See also
@[template](/_templates/common/font-size-notes.md#related-resources)
