general-information/technical-information.md, before:

---
title: Technical Information
page_title: Technical Information | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Technical Information
slug: introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/system-requirements-and-browser-support
previous_url: introduction-system-requirements
tags: system,requirements,and,browser,support
published: True
position: 0
---

# Technical Information

## System Requirements

The following page describes the system requirements needed by *Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX*: [Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX - System Requirements](http://www.telerik.com/products/aspnet-ajax/getting-started/tech-sheets/system-requirements.aspx)

## Browser Support

The following page shows all browsers and versions supported by *Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX*: [Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX - Browser Support](http://www.telerik.com/products/aspnet-ajax/getting-started/tech-sheets/browser-support.aspx)

## HTML5 Compliance

The following page lists the controls that pass HTML 5 validation in *Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX*: [Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX - HTML5 Compliance](http://www.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/tech-sheets/html5-compliance)

## XHTML Compliance

The following page describes the XHTML compliance of *Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX*: [Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX - XHTML Compliance](http://www.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/tech-sheets/xhtml-compliance)

## Accessibility Support

The following page lists the W3C compliance level and Section 508 compliance of *Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX*: [Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX - Accessibility Support](http://www.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/tech-sheets/accessibility-support)

## Localization and Right-to-Left Support

The following page shows the localization and right-to-left support of *Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX*: [Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX - Localization and Right-to-Left Support](http://www.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/tech-sheets/localization-and-right-to-left-support)

Commit message:

docs(general): Add info for the .NET Support

general-information/technical-information.md, after:

---
title: Technical Information
page_title: Technical Information | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Technical Information
slug: introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/system-requirements-and-browser-support
previous_url: introduction-system-requirements
tags: system,requirements,and,browser,support
published: True
position: 0
---

# Technical Information

## System Requirements

The following page describes the system requirements needed by *Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX*: [Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX - System Requirements](http://www.telerik.com/products/aspnet-ajax/getting-started/tech-sheets/system-requirements.aspx)

## Browser Support

The following page shows all browsers and versions supported by *Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX*: [Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX - Browser Support](http://www.telerik.com/products/aspnet-ajax/getting-started/tech-sheets/browser-support.aspx)

## .NET Support
You can find the releases that introduce builds created against the various .NET versions at [Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX - .NET Support](https://www.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/tech-sheets/net-support).

## HTML5 Compliance

The following page lists the controls that pass HTML 5 validation in *Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX*: [Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX - HTML5 Compliance](http://www.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/tech-sheets/html5-compliance)

## XHTML Compliance

The following page describes the XHTML compliance of *Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX*: [Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX - XHTML Compliance](http://www.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/tech-sheets/xhtml-compliance)

## Accessibility Support

The following page lists the W3C compliance level and Section 508 compliance of *Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX*: [Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX - Accessibility Support](http://www.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/tech-sheets/accessibility-support)

## Localization and Right-to-Left Support

The following page shows the localization and right-to-left support of *Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX*: [Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX - Localization and Right-to-Left Support](http://www.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/tech-sheets/localization-and-right-to-left-support)
