controls/window/design-time/smart-tag.md, before:

---
title: Smart Tag
page_title: Smart Tag | RadWindow for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Smart Tag
slug: window/design-time/smart-tag
tags: smart,tag
published: True
position: 0
---

# Smart Tag

## RadWindow Smart Tag

The Smart Tag for **RadWindow** lets you easily change the skin for your **RadWindow** control or quickly get help. You can display the Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadWindow** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag".

![radwindow-smart-tag](images/radwindow-smart-tag.png)

## Skin

The **Skin** drop-down displays a list of available [skins]({%slug window/appearance-and-styling/skins%}) that you can apply to your **RadWindow**, along with an example of what the title bar looks like for each skin. Assign a skin by selecting the one you want from the list.

## Learning Center

Links navigate you directly to **RadWindow** Help and support forums.

## RadWindowManager Smart Tag

The Smart Tag for **RadWindowManager** is almost identical to that for **RadWindow**. It sets the **Skin** for the **RadWindowManager**, which controls the default behavior of all windows that the **RadWindowManager** contains, or lets you link to help for **RadWindowManager**. The only difference is that it also allows you to open the [visual Configuration Manager]({%slug window/design-time/visual-configuration-manager%}). You can display the Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadWindowManager** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag".

![radwindowmanager-smart-tag](images/radwindowmanager-smart-tag.png)

Commit message:

Updated Smart tag articles for popular controls

controls/window/design-time/smart-tag.md, after:

---
title: Smart Tag
page_title: Smart Tag | RadWindow for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Smart Tag
slug: window/design-time/smart-tag
tags: smart,tag
published: True
position: 0
---

# Smart Tag

## RadWindow Smart Tag

The Smart Tag for **RadWindow** lets you easily change the skin for your **RadWindow** control or quickly get help. You can display the Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadWindow** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag".

As of Q2 2015 we have improved the smart tags of our controls by displaying the most popular control specific properties and adding links to their important online resources:

![radwindow-smart-tag](images/radwindow-smart-tag.png)

## Skin

The **Skin** drop-down displays a list of available [skins]({%slug window/appearance-and-styling/skins%}) that you can apply to your **RadWindow**, along with an example of what the title bar looks like for each skin. Assign a skin by selecting the one you want from the list.

## Learning Center

Links navigate you directly to **RadWindow** Help and support forums.

## RadWindowManager Smart Tag

The Smart Tag for **RadWindowManager** is almost identical to that for **RadWindow**. It sets the **Skin** for the **RadWindowManager**, which controls the default behavior of all windows that the **RadWindowManager** contains, or lets you link to help for **RadWindowManager**. The only difference is that it also allows you to open the [visual Configuration Manager]({%slug window/design-time/visual-configuration-manager%}). You can display the Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadWindowManager** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag".

![radwindowmanager-smart-tag](images/radwindowmanager-smart-tag.png)
