controls/cloudupload/cloud-storage-providers/telerik-backend-services.md, before:

---
title: Telerik Backend Services
page_title: Telerik Backend Services | RadCloudUpload for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Telerik Backend Services
slug: cloudupload/cloud-storage-providers/telerik-backend-services
tags: telerik,backend,services
published: True
position: 2
---

# Telerik Backend Services



[ Telerik Backend Services (formerly Everlive) ](http://www.telerik.com/backend-services) connects your applications to backend cloud storages of Telerik's Cloud Services Platform. Integration with **RadCloudUpload** is easy and requires only an **API Key**.

## Adding References

In order to be able to use the Telerik Backend Services Cloud Storage Provider, you would need the download the **dll files** from [here](https://bs-static.cdn.telerik.com/sdk/latest/windows/EverliveSDK.Windows.Net35.zip).

>note Telerik Backend Services requires reference to **Telerik.Everlive.Sdk.Net35.dll**.
>When Web Application is used the Copy Local property in the Reference Properties dialog box, available from the References pane of the Project Designer must be set to **True** .
>


## Configuration



1. From the **RadCloudUpload**'s smart tag choose Everlive as provider and open the Configuration Wizard: ![cloudupload-everlive](images/cloudupload-everlive.png)

1. In the Configuration Wizard dialog enter Everlive **API Key**. ![cloudupload-everlive-configuration](images/cloudupload-everlive-configuration.png)Specifying the **Uncommitted Files Expiration Period** (TimeSpan Structure), you could easily configure the time, after which the unprocessed files will be removed from the storage.This will add configuration setting in the **web.config** file:

	**XML**
	
		<telerik.web.ui>
			<radCloudUpload>
				<storageProviders>
					<add name="Everlive" type="Telerik.Web.UI.EverliveProvider" AppKey="" uncommitedFilesExpirationPeriod="2"/>
				</storageProviders>
			</radCloudUpload>
		</telerik.web.ui>


>note Telerik Backend Services doesn't support uploading in chunks - files are uploaded at once. In case you want to upload files, larger than 4MB refer to this [article]({%slug cloudupload/how-to/uploading-large-files%}).
>


# See Also

 * [Custom Storage Providers]({%slug cloudupload/custom-cloud-storage-providers/overview%})

 * [Custom Telerik Backend Services Provider]({%slug cloudupload/custom-cloud-storage-providers/custom-telerik-backend-services-provider-%})

 * [Troubleshooting]({%slug cloudupload/troubleshooting%})

Commit message:

docs(cloudupload): Add info about Telerik Platform discontinuation

controls/cloudupload/cloud-storage-providers/telerik-backend-services.md, after:

---
title: Telerik Backend Services
page_title: Telerik Backend Services | RadCloudUpload for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Telerik Backend Services
slug: cloudupload/cloud-storage-providers/telerik-backend-services
tags: telerik,backend,services
published: True
position: 2
---

# Telerik Backend Services

>note Progress decided to discontinue Telerik Platform including its Backend Services and integration with RadCloudUpload. You can find more information on Telerik Platform discontinuation can be found here: [Telerik Platform is Retired](https://www.telerik.com/platform-next-level).

[ Telerik Backend Services (formerly Everlive) ](http://www.telerik.com/backend-services) connects your applications to backend cloud storages of Telerik's Cloud Services Platform. Integration with **RadCloudUpload** is easy and requires only an **API Key**.

## Adding References

In order to be able to use the Telerik Backend Services Cloud Storage Provider, you would need the download the **dll files** from [here](https://bs-static.cdn.telerik.com/sdk/latest/windows/EverliveSDK.Windows.Net35.zip).

>note Telerik Backend Services requires reference to **Telerik.Everlive.Sdk.Net35.dll**.
>When Web Application is used the Copy Local property in the Reference Properties dialog box, available from the References pane of the Project Designer must be set to **True** .
>


## Configuration



1. From the **RadCloudUpload**'s smart tag choose Everlive as provider and open the Configuration Wizard: ![cloudupload-everlive](images/cloudupload-everlive.png)

1. In the Configuration Wizard dialog enter Everlive **API Key**. ![cloudupload-everlive-configuration](images/cloudupload-everlive-configuration.png)Specifying the **Uncommitted Files Expiration Period** (TimeSpan Structure), you could easily configure the time, after which the unprocessed files will be removed from the storage.This will add configuration setting in the **web.config** file:

	**XML**
	
		<telerik.web.ui>
			<radCloudUpload>
				<storageProviders>
					<add name="Everlive" type="Telerik.Web.UI.EverliveProvider" AppKey="" uncommitedFilesExpirationPeriod="2"/>
				</storageProviders>
			</radCloudUpload>
		</telerik.web.ui>


>note Telerik Backend Services doesn't support uploading in chunks - files are uploaded at once. In case you want to upload files, larger than 4MB refer to this [article]({%slug cloudupload/how-to/uploading-large-files%}).
>


# See Also

 * [Custom Storage Providers]({%slug cloudupload/custom-cloud-storage-providers/overview%})

 * [Custom Telerik Backend Services Provider]({%slug cloudupload/custom-cloud-storage-providers/custom-telerik-backend-services-provider-%})

 * [Troubleshooting]({%slug cloudupload/troubleshooting%})
