controls/grid/functionality/exporting/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Exporting Overview | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Overview
slug: grid/functionality/exporting/overview
tags: overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Exporting Overview



## Supported formats

*Telerik RadGrid* can export your data to the following formats:

|  **Format**  |  **Sub-format**  |  **Inner type**  |  **Command name**  |  **Predefined constants**  |  **Server-side method**  |  **Client-side method**  |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
|PDF|n/a|binary|ExportToPdf|RadGrid.ExportToPdfCommandName|ExportToPdf()|ExportToPdf()|
|Excel|HTML|HTML|ExportToExcel|RadGrid.ExportToExcelCommandName|ExportToExcel()|ExportToExcel()|
|Excel|ExcelML|XML|ExportToExcel|RadGrid.ExportToExcelCommandName|ExportToExcel()|ExportToExcel()|
|Word|n/a|HTML|ExportToWord|RadGrid.ExportToWordCommandName|ExportToWord()|ExportToWord()|
|CSV|n/a|text|ExportToCsv|RadGrid.ExportToCsvCommandName|ExportToCSV()|ExportToCsv()|

>note We strongly recommend that you use [Advanced Data Binding](http://www.telerik.com/help/aspnet-ajax/grid-advanced-data-binding.html) when exporting the **RadGrid** .
>


## Common properties and events

In addition to the export format's specific properties, the **ExportSettings** group exposes several common properties:

* **ExportOnlyData**

As the name says, this property is helpful when you want to export only the data - e.g. to exclude the controls from the exported file.

* **IgnorePaging**

When you enable *IgnorePaging*, *RadGrid* will rebind before export in order to fetch all the data from your datasource.

* **OpenInNewWindow**

By default, the exported file will be handled by the program associated with the appropriate file type.If you prefer to give the user the option to choose whether to save, open (inline) or cancel you should enable this property.

>note Even if you set **OpenInNewWindow="false"**, that doesn't guarantee that the file will be opened inside the browser window. The way the exported file will be displayed inline depends on the *OS* / *browser* settings.The end-user could manage the file extensions with programs like [NirSoft's FileTypesMan](http://www.nirsoft.net/utils/file_types_manager.html). For browsers, other than *Internet Explorer* , you should use the built-in settings.
>


* **FileName**

This is helpful when you want to give a predefined name for your file. Please note that the file name can't be longer than 256 symbols.

**Unicode** names are not supported out-of-the-box for **Internet Explorer 6** and **7**. Of course you can manually encode the file name and it will be shown properly in the "**Save**" dialog (**OpenInNewWindow**="**true**").

**HttpUtility.UrlEncode("unicode string", System.Text.Encoding.UTF8);**

>note  **Internet Explorer** ignores the **FileName** property when **OpenInNewWindow** is set to false.
>


* **HideStructureColumns**

Removes the structure columns - *GridRowIndicatorColumn*, *GridExpandColumn* as well as the first *GridGroupSplitterColumn*. Note that this property will affect only the first level in hierarchical *RadGrids*.

````ASP.NET
<ExportSettings
   HideStructureColumns="true"
   ExportOnlyData="true"
   IgnorePaging="true"
   OpenInNewWindow="true">
</ExportSettings>
````



>note You can receive this error if the file name is longer than 256 symbols:
> **'<filename>.<extension>' could not be found. Check the spelling of the file name, and verify that thefile location is correct.** 
>


* **SuppressColumnDataFormatStrings**

This property will help avoid exporting already formatted values which would cause Microsoft Excel to treat them as string values.Enabling this functionality will result in rebinding the control before exporting. Note that even if both *IgnorePaging* and*SuppressColumnDataFormatStrings* are enabled, RadGrid will rebind only once.

* **UseItemStyles**

As the name says, this property gives you the ability to apply the item styles to the exported file.

## OnGridExporting event

This event is use able in many scenarios when you want to modify the output file - for example you may want to add some custom information above *RadGrid* or when you want to remove/add/replace parts of the content.The only limitation applies to the *PDF* export because by the time the **OnGridExporting** event is raised, the *PDF* is already generated.For more information, please visit the dedicated **PDF format topic** which introduces the**OnPdfExporting** event that is designed specifically for this format.

Below is the bare bone logic for **OnGridExporting** event:



````C#
protected void RadGrid1_GridExporting(object source, GridExportingArgs e)
{
    switch (e.ExportType)
    {
        case ExportType.Excel:
            //do something with the e.ExportOutput value      
            break;
        case ExportType.ExcelML:
            //do something with the e.ExportOutput value     
            break;
        case ExportType.Word:
            //do something with the e.ExportOutput value       
            break;
        case ExportType.Csv:
            //do something with the e.ExportOutput value    
            break;
        case ExportType.Pdf:
            //you can't change the output here - use the PdfExporting event instead   
            break;
    }
}
````
````VB
Protected Sub RadGrid1_GridExporting(ByVal source As Object, ByVal e As GridExportingArgs)
    Select Case e.ExportType
        Case ExportType.Excel
            'do something with the e.ExportOutput value   
            Exit Select
        Case ExportType.ExcelML
            'do something with the e.ExportOutput value
            Exit Select
        Case ExportType.Word
            'do something with the e.ExportOutput value  
            Exit Select
        Case ExportType.Csv
            'do something with the e.ExportOutput value 
            Exit Select
        Case ExportType.Pdf
            'you can't change the output here - use the PdfExporting event instead   
    End Select
End Sub
````


## Common scenarios

>caution Exporting with **client-side binding** is not supported, **RadGrid** should be bound **server-side** , otherwise you will receive an empty file.
>


>caution RadGrid exporting works only when the **ViewState** is persisted in a hidden field (default). In case you are using analternative way to persist the **ViewState** such as storing it in a database or a session, you will receive an exception.
>


## Exporting a large amount of data

We strongly recommend not to export large amounts of data since there is a chance to encounter an exception(*Timeout* or *OutOfMemory*) if more than one user tries to export the same data simultaneously. **RadGrid** is not suitable for such scenarios and therefore we suggest that you limit the number of columns and rows. Also it is important to note that the hierarchy and the nested controls have a considerable effect on the performance in this scenario.

## Export with custom paging

When you have custom paging enabled for your grid, you need to set the *PageSize* property of the grid to be equal to the *VirtualItemCount* in order to export all records successfully with *IgnorePaging* set to true. Here is an example:



````C#
protected void Button1_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
    RadGrid1.PageSize = RadGrid1.MasterTableView.VirtualItemCount;
    RadGrid1.ExportSettings.IgnorePaging = true;
    RadGrid1.ExportSettings.OpenInNewWindow = true;
    RadGrid1.MasterTableView.ExportToExcel();
}
````
````VB
Protected Sub Button1_Click(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As EventArgs)
    RadGrid1.PageSize = RadGrid1.MasterTableView.VirtualItemCount
    RadGrid1.ExportSettings.IgnorePaging = True
    RadGrid1.ExportSettings.OpenInNewWindow = True
    RadGrid1.MasterTableView.ExportToExcel()
End Sub
````


## Export from AJAX-enabled RadGrid

The exporting feature works only with regular postbacks. This means, that the asynchronous postback should be canceled when performing an export.

More information on this topic is available below:

[Export from ajaxified grid]( http://www.telerik.com/help/aspnet-ajax/grdexportwithajax.html)

[ Exclude controls from ajaxifying ](http://www.telerik.com/help/aspnet-ajax/ajxexclude.html)

[ Export RadGrid content to Excel/Word/CSV/PDF with Ajax enabled ](http://www.telerik.com/community/code-library/aspnet-ajax/general/export-radgrid-content-to-excel-word-csv-pdf-with-ajax-enabled.aspx)

## Nested grids / Exporting multiple RadGrids

The following code-library project demonstrates how to export nested *RadGrids* to*PDF*/*Excel* (HTML)

[Export multiple RadGrids in single PDF/Excel file](http://www.telerik.com/community/code-library/aspnet-ajax/grid/export-multiple-radgrids-in-single-pdf-excel-file.aspx)

## Export with client-side binding

**RadGrid** doesn't support exporting with *client-side binding*.To be able to export in such scenario, you should bind **RadGrid** on the server.

## Export in SharePoint webpart

There is a special flag (_spFormOnSubmitCalled) in **SharePoint** that prevents the form to be submitted twice.The flag is set when the form is submitted and then cleared when the response is received. When using the exporting functionality,this flag won't be cleared because the response is redirected and therefore all further postbacks will be blocked. [Controls not functional after Export to Excel or Export to PDF of Telerik in Sharepoint Application page](http://www.faisalmb.com/blog/post/2010/01/28/Controls-not-functional-after-Export-to-Excel-or-Export-to-PDF-of-Telerik-in-Sharepoint-Application-page.aspx)

## Export in web farm

If you receive "Invalid ViewState" or similar exception in web farm scenario, you can try to copy the *machinekey* from your *web.config* to the *machine.config* of the web server.

## Export over SSL

You might receive the following error message when using the export feature over *SSL* and*Internet Explorer*:


>caption  

| " *Internet Explorer* cannot download ' *file'* from ' *server'* . *Internet Explorer* was not able to open this Internet site. The requested site is either unavailable or cannot be found. Please try again later." |
| ------ |

In order to prevent this error add the following lines just before the exporting:



````C#
RadGrid1.Page.Response.ClearHeaders();
RadGrid1.Page.Response.Cache.SetCacheability(HttpCacheability.Private);
````
````VB
RadGrid1.Page.Response.ClearHeaders()
RadGrid1.Page.Response.Cache.SetCacheability(HttpCacheability.[Private])
````


## Obsolete methods

The following methods are marked as obsolete as of *RadGrid* v4.6 (part of *UIfor ASP.NET.AJAX*)

* **server-side:**

* *ExportToWord(fileName, dataOnly, ignorePaging)*

* *ExportToExcel(fileName, dataOnly, ignorePaging)*

* *ExportToWord2007(fileName, dataOnly, ignorePaging)*

* *ExportToExcel2007(fileName, dataOnly, ignorePaging)*

* **client-side:**

* *ExportToWord(fileName)*

* *ExportToExcel(fileName)*

For real-life example, review our [online demo](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/Grid/Examples/GeneralFeatures/Exporting/DefaultCS.aspx).

Commit message:

Modified Ajax-enabled RadGrid section

controls/grid/functionality/exporting/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Exporting Overview | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Overview
slug: grid/functionality/exporting/overview
tags: overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Exporting Overview



## Supported formats

*Telerik RadGrid* can export your data to the following formats:

|  **Format**  |  **Sub-format**  |  **Inner type**  |  **Command name**  |  **Predefined constants**  |  **Server-side method**  |  **Client-side method**  |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
|PDF|n/a|binary|ExportToPdf|RadGrid.ExportToPdfCommandName|ExportToPdf()|ExportToPdf()|
|Excel|HTML|HTML|ExportToExcel|RadGrid.ExportToExcelCommandName|ExportToExcel()|ExportToExcel()|
|Excel|ExcelML|XML|ExportToExcel|RadGrid.ExportToExcelCommandName|ExportToExcel()|ExportToExcel()|
|Word|n/a|HTML|ExportToWord|RadGrid.ExportToWordCommandName|ExportToWord()|ExportToWord()|
|CSV|n/a|text|ExportToCsv|RadGrid.ExportToCsvCommandName|ExportToCSV()|ExportToCsv()|

>note We strongly recommend that you use [Advanced Data Binding](http://www.telerik.com/help/aspnet-ajax/grid-advanced-data-binding.html) when exporting the **RadGrid** .
>


## Common properties and events

In addition to the export format's specific properties, the **ExportSettings** group exposes several common properties:

* **ExportOnlyData**

As the name says, this property is helpful when you want to export only the data - e.g. to exclude the controls from the exported file.

* **IgnorePaging**

When you enable *IgnorePaging*, *RadGrid* will rebind before export in order to fetch all the data from your datasource.

* **OpenInNewWindow**

By default, the exported file will be handled by the program associated with the appropriate file type.If you prefer to give the user the option to choose whether to save, open (inline) or cancel you should enable this property.

>note Even if you set **OpenInNewWindow="false"**, that doesn't guarantee that the file will be opened inside the browser window. The way the exported file will be displayed inline depends on the *OS* / *browser* settings.The end-user could manage the file extensions with programs like [NirSoft's FileTypesMan](http://www.nirsoft.net/utils/file_types_manager.html). For browsers, other than *Internet Explorer* , you should use the built-in settings.
>


* **FileName**

This is helpful when you want to give a predefined name for your file. Please note that the file name can't be longer than 256 symbols.

**Unicode** names are not supported out-of-the-box for **Internet Explorer 6** and **7**. Of course you can manually encode the file name and it will be shown properly in the "**Save**" dialog (**OpenInNewWindow**="**true**").

**HttpUtility.UrlEncode("unicode string", System.Text.Encoding.UTF8);**

>note  **Internet Explorer** ignores the **FileName** property when **OpenInNewWindow** is set to false.
>


* **HideStructureColumns**

Removes the structure columns - *GridRowIndicatorColumn*, *GridExpandColumn* as well as the first *GridGroupSplitterColumn*. Note that this property will affect only the first level in hierarchical *RadGrids*.

````ASP.NET
<ExportSettings
   HideStructureColumns="true"
   ExportOnlyData="true"
   IgnorePaging="true"
   OpenInNewWindow="true">
</ExportSettings>
````



>note You can receive this error if the file name is longer than 256 symbols:
> **'<filename>.<extension>' could not be found. Check the spelling of the file name, and verify that thefile location is correct.** 
>


* **SuppressColumnDataFormatStrings**

This property will help avoid exporting already formatted values which would cause Microsoft Excel to treat them as string values.Enabling this functionality will result in rebinding the control before exporting. Note that even if both *IgnorePaging* and*SuppressColumnDataFormatStrings* are enabled, RadGrid will rebind only once.

* **UseItemStyles**

As the name says, this property gives you the ability to apply the item styles to the exported file.

## OnGridExporting event

This event is use able in many scenarios when you want to modify the output file - for example you may want to add some custom information above *RadGrid* or when you want to remove/add/replace parts of the content.The only limitation applies to the *PDF* export because by the time the **OnGridExporting** event is raised, the *PDF* is already generated.For more information, please visit the dedicated **PDF format topic** which introduces the**OnPdfExporting** event that is designed specifically for this format.

Below is the bare bone logic for **OnGridExporting** event:



````C#
protected void RadGrid1_GridExporting(object source, GridExportingArgs e)
{
    switch (e.ExportType)
    {
        case ExportType.Excel:
            //do something with the e.ExportOutput value      
            break;
        case ExportType.ExcelML:
            //do something with the e.ExportOutput value     
            break;
        case ExportType.Word:
            //do something with the e.ExportOutput value       
            break;
        case ExportType.Csv:
            //do something with the e.ExportOutput value    
            break;
        case ExportType.Pdf:
            //you can't change the output here - use the PdfExporting event instead   
            break;
    }
}
````
````VB
Protected Sub RadGrid1_GridExporting(ByVal source As Object, ByVal e As GridExportingArgs)
    Select Case e.ExportType
        Case ExportType.Excel
            'do something with the e.ExportOutput value   
            Exit Select
        Case ExportType.ExcelML
            'do something with the e.ExportOutput value
            Exit Select
        Case ExportType.Word
            'do something with the e.ExportOutput value  
            Exit Select
        Case ExportType.Csv
            'do something with the e.ExportOutput value 
            Exit Select
        Case ExportType.Pdf
            'you can't change the output here - use the PdfExporting event instead   
    End Select
End Sub
````


## Common scenarios

>caution Exporting with **client-side binding** is not supported, **RadGrid** should be bound **server-side** , otherwise you will receive an empty file.
>


>caution RadGrid exporting works only when the **ViewState** is persisted in a hidden field (default). In case you are using analternative way to persist the **ViewState** such as storing it in a database or a session, you will receive an exception.
>


## Exporting a large amount of data

We strongly recommend not to export large amounts of data since there is a chance to encounter an exception(*Timeout* or *OutOfMemory*) if more than one user tries to export the same data simultaneously. **RadGrid** is not suitable for such scenarios and therefore we suggest that you limit the number of columns and rows. Also it is important to note that the hierarchy and the nested controls have a considerable effect on the performance in this scenario.

## Export with custom paging

When you have custom paging enabled for your grid, you need to set the *PageSize* property of the grid to be equal to the *VirtualItemCount* in order to export all records successfully with *IgnorePaging* set to true. Here is an example:



````C#
protected void Button1_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
    RadGrid1.PageSize = RadGrid1.MasterTableView.VirtualItemCount;
    RadGrid1.ExportSettings.IgnorePaging = true;
    RadGrid1.ExportSettings.OpenInNewWindow = true;
    RadGrid1.MasterTableView.ExportToExcel();
}
````
````VB
Protected Sub Button1_Click(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As EventArgs)
    RadGrid1.PageSize = RadGrid1.MasterTableView.VirtualItemCount
    RadGrid1.ExportSettings.IgnorePaging = True
    RadGrid1.ExportSettings.OpenInNewWindow = True
    RadGrid1.MasterTableView.ExportToExcel()
End Sub
````


## Export from AJAX-enabled RadGrid

The exporting feature works only with regular postbacks. This means, that the asynchronous postback should be canceled when performing an export. Since Q1 2016 the default built-in export buttons are already performing regular postback, therefore it is not needed to manually exclude them from Ajax, even the RadGrid control is ajaxified, to perform export with them.

More details and manually canceling of the asynchronous postback can be found in following resources. 

[Export from ajaxified grid]( http://www.telerik.com/help/aspnet-ajax/grdexportwithajax.html)

[ Exclude controls from ajaxifying ](http://www.telerik.com/help/aspnet-ajax/ajxexclude.html)

[ Export RadGrid content to Excel/Word/CSV/PDF with Ajax enabled ](http://www.telerik.com/community/code-library/aspnet-ajax/general/export-radgrid-content-to-excel-word-csv-pdf-with-ajax-enabled.aspx)

## Nested grids / Exporting multiple RadGrids

The following code-library project demonstrates how to export nested *RadGrids* to*PDF*/*Excel* (HTML)

[Export multiple RadGrids in single PDF/Excel file](http://www.telerik.com/community/code-library/aspnet-ajax/grid/export-multiple-radgrids-in-single-pdf-excel-file.aspx)

## Export with client-side binding

**RadGrid** doesn't support exporting with *client-side binding*.To be able to export in such scenario, you should bind **RadGrid** on the server.

## Export in SharePoint webpart

There is a special flag (_spFormOnSubmitCalled) in **SharePoint** that prevents the form to be submitted twice.The flag is set when the form is submitted and then cleared when the response is received. When using the exporting functionality,this flag won't be cleared because the response is redirected and therefore all further postbacks will be blocked. [Controls not functional after Export to Excel or Export to PDF of Telerik in Sharepoint Application page](http://www.faisalmb.com/blog/post/2010/01/28/Controls-not-functional-after-Export-to-Excel-or-Export-to-PDF-of-Telerik-in-Sharepoint-Application-page.aspx)

## Export in web farm

If you receive "Invalid ViewState" or similar exception in web farm scenario, you can try to copy the *machinekey* from your *web.config* to the *machine.config* of the web server.

## Export over SSL

You might receive the following error message when using the export feature over *SSL* and*Internet Explorer*:


>caption  

| " *Internet Explorer* cannot download ' *file'* from ' *server'* . *Internet Explorer* was not able to open this Internet site. The requested site is either unavailable or cannot be found. Please try again later." |
| ------ |

In order to prevent this error add the following lines just before the exporting:



````C#
RadGrid1.Page.Response.ClearHeaders();
RadGrid1.Page.Response.Cache.SetCacheability(HttpCacheability.Private);
````
````VB
RadGrid1.Page.Response.ClearHeaders()
RadGrid1.Page.Response.Cache.SetCacheability(HttpCacheability.[Private])
````


## Obsolete methods

The following methods are marked as obsolete as of *RadGrid* v4.6 (part of *UIfor ASP.NET.AJAX*)

* **server-side:**

* *ExportToWord(fileName, dataOnly, ignorePaging)*

* *ExportToExcel(fileName, dataOnly, ignorePaging)*

* *ExportToWord2007(fileName, dataOnly, ignorePaging)*

* *ExportToExcel2007(fileName, dataOnly, ignorePaging)*

* **client-side:**

* *ExportToWord(fileName)*

* *ExportToExcel(fileName)*

For real-life example, review our [online demo](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/Grid/Examples/GeneralFeatures/Exporting/DefaultCS.aspx).
