controls/notification/appearance-and-styling/skins.md, before:

---
title: Skins
page_title: Skins | RadNotification for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Skins
slug: notification/appearance-and-styling/skins
tags: skins
published: True
position: 3
---

# Skins





To make customizing the appearance of **RadNotification** as easy as possible, the control uses skins. A skin is a set of images and a CSS stylesheet that are applied to the HTML elements which make up the notification, defining the look and feel.

To apply a skin, set the **Skin** property of the **RadNotification**. You can set the it by using the properties pane, the server-side property or the control's Smart Tag.

**RadNotification** is installed with a number of predefined skins:


![radnotification-skins-list](images/notification-skins.png)


>note The **Shadow** and **Rounded Corners** are achieved via CSS3 properties and will not have effect under browsers that do not support them (such as IE8 and prior, FireFox 3, etc).



# See Also

 * [Smart Tag]({%slug notification/design-time%})

Commit message:

add not that Material skin is available in LWR mode only

controls/notification/appearance-and-styling/skins.md, after:

---
title: Skins
page_title: Skins | RadNotification for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Skins
slug: notification/appearance-and-styling/skins
tags: skins
published: True
position: 3
---

# Skins





To make customizing the appearance of **RadNotification** as easy as possible, the control uses skins. A skin is a set of images and a CSS stylesheet that are applied to the HTML elements which make up the notification, defining the look and feel.

To apply a skin, set the **Skin** property of the **RadNotification**. You can set the it by using the properties pane, the server-side property or the control's Smart Tag.

**RadNotification** is installed with a number of predefined skins:


![radnotification-skins-list](images/notification-skins.png) 


 @[template - Material skin is available only in Lightweight mode](/_templates/common/skins-notes.md#material-only-in-lightweight) 




>note The **Shadow** and **Rounded Corners** are achieved via CSS3 properties and will not have effect under browsers that do not support them (such as IE8 and prior, FireFox 3, etc).



# See Also

 * [Smart Tag]({%slug notification/design-time%})
