controls/treeview/appearance-and-styling/skins.md, before:

---
title: Skins
page_title: Skins | RadTreeView for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Skins
slug: treeview/appearance-and-styling/skins
tags: skins
published: True
position: 2
---

# Skins


To make customizing the appearance of **RadTreeView** as easy as possible, the control uses **skins**. A skin is a set of images and a CSS style sheet that can be applied to the **TreeView** elements (Nodes, images, etc.) and defines their look and feel. To apply a skin to the **TreeView**, set its **Skin** property, either using the properties pane or the **RadTreeView** [Smart Tag]({%slug treeview/design-time/smart-tag%}).

**RadTreeView** comes with a number of built-in skins:

![RadTreeView Skins](images/treeview-skins.png)



# See Also

 * [Tutorial on Creating a Custom Skin]({%slug treeview/appearance-and-styling/tutorial-on-creating-a-custom-skin%})

 * [Understanding the Skin CSS File]({%slug treeview/appearance-and-styling/understanding-the-skin-css-file%})

 * [CSS Skin File Selectors]({%slug treeview/appearance-and-styling/css-skin-file-selectors%})

Commit message:

add not that Material skin is available in LWR mode only

controls/treeview/appearance-and-styling/skins.md, after:

---
title: Skins
page_title: Skins | RadTreeView for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Skins
slug: treeview/appearance-and-styling/skins
tags: skins
published: True
position: 2
---

# Skins


To make customizing the appearance of **RadTreeView** as easy as possible, the control uses **skins**. A skin is a set of images and a CSS style sheet that can be applied to the **TreeView** elements (Nodes, images, etc.) and defines their look and feel. To apply a skin to the **TreeView**, set its **Skin** property, either using the properties pane or the **RadTreeView** [Smart Tag]({%slug treeview/design-time/smart-tag%}).

**RadTreeView** comes with a number of built-in skins:

![RadTreeView Skins](images/treeview-skins.png) 


 @[template - Material skin is available only in Lightweight mode](/_templates/common/skins-notes.md#material-only-in-lightweight) 





# See Also

 * [Tutorial on Creating a Custom Skin]({%slug treeview/appearance-and-styling/tutorial-on-creating-a-custom-skin%})

 * [Understanding the Skin CSS File]({%slug treeview/appearance-and-styling/understanding-the-skin-css-file%})

 * [CSS Skin File Selectors]({%slug treeview/appearance-and-styling/css-skin-file-selectors%})
