general-information/using-jquery/using-jquery.md, before:

---
title: Using jQuery
page_title: Using jQuery | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Using jQuery
slug: introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/using-jquery/using-jquery
tags: using,jquery
published: True
position: 1
---

# Using jQuery



This help articles shows how to include and use embedded and external jQuery with Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX suite and lists the jQuery version history used by the controls.

1. [Including jQuery](#including-jquery)

1. [Including external jQuery](#including-external-jquery)

1. [Using the jQuery Brought by Telerik](#using-the-jquery-brought-by-telerik)

1. [jQuery Version History in Telerik UI Controls](#jquery-version-history-in-telerik-ui-controls)

1. [Telerik UI Controls Using jQuery](#telerik-ui-controls-using-jquery)

## Including jQuery

If you have any of the controls listed in the [Telerik UI Controls Using jQuery](#telerik-ui-controls-using-jquery) section (with the specified version or newer) on your page then the jQuery **is already included** and you can omit this paragraph. If not - follow these steps:

1. Add a ScriptReference pointing to **Core.js** as we use a slightly customized version of jQuery which depends on Core.js.
	
	We have not modified the implementation of jQuery in any way. We have just appended a few more lines of JavaScript at the end of the file in order to avoid any version conflict and to include a few useful jQuery plugins.
	
	**ASP.NET**

		<asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.Core.js" /> 

1. Add a ScriptReference pointing to **jQuery.js**

	**ASP.NET**
	
		<asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.jQuery.js" /> 

Here is how your RadScriptManager (or ScriptManager) should look like in the end:

````ASP.NET
<telerik:RadScriptManager runat="server" ID="RadScriptManager1" >
   <Scripts>
       <asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.Core.js" />
       <asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.jQuery.js" />
   </Scripts>
</telerik:RadScriptManager> 
````

## Including external jQuery

You can disable the embedded jQuery library and include an external one. This lets you use your own version for the **$telerik.$** variable, which exposes the embedded jQuery library.

>note Embedding a custom jQuery is optional and you can do it if you want to utilize only one version throughout your site instead of having the version that comes with the Telerik controls and an additional one. You should be safe if you reference more versions, because the jQuery in our controls is accessed via a separate alias (**$telerik.$**), the purpose of which is to avoid conflicts.
>

You can disable the jQuery scripts our controls bring by default via the following steps:

1. Load the custom version of jQuery you want to use. At this point you have the jQuery embedded in the Telerik controls and the custom one that is loaded via the following code. Proceed to the next step if you want to replace the embedded version with the custom one.

	**ASP.NET**
	
		<head>
		    <script src="http://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.9.1.min.js"></script>
		    ...
		</head>


1. Disable the embedded jQuery library as described in [Disabling the embedded jQuery]({%slug scriptmanager/disabling-the-embedded-jquery%}) help article.

1. Configure the ScriptReferences in **RadScriptManager** as shown in following sample. The script that integrates the external jQuery library in our client-side library is located in the file **jQueryExternal.js**.

	**ASP.NET**
	
		<telerik:RadScriptManager runat="server" ID="RadScriptManager2" EnableEmbeddedjQuery="false">
		    <Scripts>
		        <asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.Core.js" />
		        <asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.jQueryExternal.js" />
		        <asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.jQueryPlugins.js" />
		    </Scripts>
		</telerik:RadScriptManager>


>important The Telerik controls depend on the specific version of jQuery they are tested against (above you can check the version that is used in each release of UI for ASP.NET AJAX). It is possible that using an older version of jQuery or a version, greater than the latestone from the [jQuery Version History in Telerik UI Controls](#jquery-version-history-in-telerik-ui-controls) section, will break the controls.
>


## Using the jQuery Brought by Telerik

After including the jQuery file you can start using it. There is a trick though - the jQuery object is available as **$telerik.$** instead of the default **$** or jQuery aliases. This is so to avoid compatibility issues with applications which already use (other versions of)jQuery. For more info you can check the [documentation of the noConflict	](http://docs.jquery.com/Core/jQuery.noConflict) method.

Fortunately there are easy ways to enable back the **$ alias.** Choose one of the options below.

>important Make sure to add the script after the ScriptManager control.


*  Using a global variable
	
	**JavaScript**

		<script type="text/javascript">
		    window.$ = $telerik.$;
		</script> 


* Using a self-calling anonymous function (**Example 1**):

	**JavaScript**
	
		<script type="text/javascript">
			(function ($) {
				$(document).ready(function () {
					alert("Hooray! The document is ready!");
				}
		   );
			})($telerik.$);
		</script> 


* Using the **$telerik.$** alias:

	**JavaScript**
	
		<script type="text/javascript">
			$telerik.$(document).ready(function () {
				alert("Document is ready");
			});
		</script> 


* Include a script reference to the **Telerik.Web.UI.Common.jQueryInclude.js**:

	**ASP.NET**

		<telerik:RadScriptManager ID="RadScriptManager1" runat="server">
		   <Scripts>
		   ......
		          <asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.jQueryInclude.js" />
		   </Scripts>
		</telerik:RadScriptManager> 




>caution Note that loading jQueryInclude.js in a script manager will take the global jQuery object and any (external) jQuery loaded later won’t be initialized.
>

Use any of the approaches above.

**Example 1**: Using a self-calling anonymous function to reference jQuery instance.

````ASP.NET
<telerik:RadScriptManager runat="server" ID="RadScriptManager1">
</telerik:RadScriptManager>
<telerik:RadComboBox RenderMode="Lightweight" runat="server" ID="RadComboBox1" Width="300px" Skin="Telerik">
   <Items>
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="ASP.NET AJAX UI Controls" />
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="WinForms UI Controls" />
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="WPF UI Controls" />
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="Silverlight UI Controls" />
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="Telerik Reporting" />
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="Telerik OpenAccess ORM" />
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="Telerik Sitefinity CMS" />
   </Items>
</telerik:RadComboBox>
<script type="text/javascript">
	(function ($) {
		$(document).ready(function () {
			$('.rcbItem')
           .mouseover(function () {
           	$(this).stop().animate({ paddingLeft: "30px" }, { duration: 300 });
           })
           .mouseout(function () {
           	$(this).stop().animate({ paddingLeft: "4px" }, { duration: 300 });
           });
		});
	})($telerik.$);
</script> 
````

## jQuery Version History in Telerik UI Controls

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX R1 2019 - present are using jQuery version 1.12.4, modified to backport their [fix for a potential CORS XSS vulnerability](https://github.com/jquery/jquery/issues/2432#issuecomment-403761229). Static code scans may still show this vulnerability, but it will be a false positive.

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX R2 2018 SP1 - R3 2018 are using jQuery version 1.12.4 (downgraded from 3.3.1 in R2 2018 due to incompatibilities with the MS AJAX framework and its __doPostBack() method - [see more](https://www.telerik.com/forums/known-issues-and-important-changes#KKI7NGE4P0K-jwQGL525dA)).

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX R2 2018 - is using jQuery version 3.3.1. It has [known issues](https://www.telerik.com/forums/known-issues-and-important-changes#KKI7NGE4P0K-jwQGL525dA) and we recommend using R2 2018 SP1.

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q3 2014 - R1 2018 are using jQuery version 1.11.1

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q1 2013 SP1 - Q2 2014 SP1 are using jQuery version 1.9.1

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q1 2012 SP1 - Q1 2013 are using jQuery version 1.7.2

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q3 2011 SP1 / Q1 2012 are using jQuery version 1.7.1

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q2 2011 SP1 / Q3 2011 are using jQuery version 1.6.4

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q2 2011 are using jQuery version 1.6.2

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q1 2011 SP1 / SP2 are using jQuery version 1.5.2

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q1 2011 are using jQuery version 1.5.1

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q3 2010 SP1 / SP2 are using jQuery version 1.4.4

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q3 2010 are using jQuery version 1.4.3

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q1 / Q2 2010 are using jQuery version 1.4.2

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q1 / Q2 2009 are using jQuery version 1.3.2


## Telerik UI Controls Using jQuery

As of Q3 2008, the Telerik.Web.UI assembly includes the jQuery JavaScript library. **Table 1** shows a list of Telerik controls that are using jQuery.

>caption Table 1: Telerik UI controls which use jQuery.

|  Control name  |  Version  |
| ------ | ------ |
|RadAjaxLoadingPanel|Q3 2009|
|RadButton|Q3 2010|
|RadCalendar|Q3 2009|
|RadComboBox|Q1 2009|
|RadContextMenu|Q1 2009|
|RadDatePicker|Q3 2009|
|RadDateTimePicker|Q3 2009|
|RadDock|Q1 2009|
|RadEditor|Q3 2009|
|RadFileExplorer|Q3 2009|
|RadGrid (when using declarative client-side binding or column animations)|Q3 2008 -[ declarative client-side binding ](https://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/grid/examples/client/declarativedatabinding/defaultcs.aspx)Q2 2010 -[ column animations ](https://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/grid/examples/client/columnanimation/defaultcs.aspx)|
|RadInputManager|Q1 2009|
|RadImageEditor|Q2 2011|
|RadListView|Q1 2012|
|RadMenu|Q1 2009|
|RadMonthYearPicker|Q1 2011|
|RadNotification|Q2 2011|
|RadOrgChart|Q3 2011|
|RadPanelBar|Q1 2009|
|RadRibbonBar|Q1 2011|
|RadRating|Q1 2011|
|RadRotator|Q1 2009|
|RadScheduler|Q3 2008|
|RadSlider|Q1 2009|
|RadSocialShare|Q3 2011|
|RadSpell|Q1 2010|
|RadSplitter|Q1 2009|
|RadTagCloud|Q2 2010|
|RadTicker|Q1 2009|
|RadTileList|Q2 2013|
|RadTimePicker|Q3 2009|
|RadToolTip|Q1 2009|
|RadTreeView|Q3 2008|
|RadWindow|Q1 2009|
|RadXmlHttpPanel|Q3 2010|


### See Also

 * [What is jQuery?]({%slug general-information/using-jquery/what-is-jquery%})

 * [jQuery Intellisense]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/using-jquery/jquery-intellisense%})
 
 * [Disabling the Embedded jQuery]({%slug scriptmanager/disabling-the-embedded-jquery%})

Commit message:

docs(jquery): Added backport fixes info and explanation why an upgrade to jquery 3.x is not possible

general-information/using-jquery/using-jquery.md, after:

---
title: Using jQuery
page_title: Using jQuery | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Using jQuery
slug: introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/using-jquery/using-jquery
tags: using,jquery
published: True
position: 1
---

# Using jQuery



This help articles shows how to include and use embedded and external jQuery with Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX suite and lists the jQuery version history used by the controls.

1. [Including jQuery](#including-jquery)

1. [Including external jQuery](#including-external-jquery)

1. [Using the jQuery Brought by Telerik](#using-the-jquery-brought-by-telerik)

1. [jQuery Version History in Telerik UI Controls](#jquery-version-history-in-telerik-ui-controls)

1. [Telerik UI Controls Using jQuery](#telerik-ui-controls-using-jquery)

1. [Embedded jQuery Security](#embedded-jquery-security)

## Including jQuery

If you have any of the controls listed in the [Telerik UI Controls Using jQuery](#telerik-ui-controls-using-jquery) section (with the specified version or newer) on your page then the jQuery **is already included** and you can omit this paragraph. If not - follow these steps:

1. Add a ScriptReference pointing to **Core.js** as we use a slightly customized version of jQuery which depends on Core.js.
	
	We have not modified the implementation of jQuery in any way. We have just appended a few more lines of JavaScript at the end of the file in order to avoid any version conflict and to include a few useful jQuery plugins.
	
	**ASP.NET**

		<asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.Core.js" /> 

1. Add a ScriptReference pointing to **jQuery.js**

	**ASP.NET**
	
		<asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.jQuery.js" /> 

Here is how your RadScriptManager (or ScriptManager) should look like in the end:

````ASP.NET
<telerik:RadScriptManager runat="server" ID="RadScriptManager1" >
   <Scripts>
       <asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.Core.js" />
       <asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.jQuery.js" />
   </Scripts>
</telerik:RadScriptManager> 
````

## Including external jQuery

You can disable the embedded jQuery library and include an external one. This lets you use your own version for the **$telerik.$** variable, which exposes the embedded jQuery library.

>note Embedding a custom jQuery is optional and you can do it if you want to utilize only one version throughout your site instead of having the version that comes with the Telerik controls and an additional one. You should be safe if you reference more versions, because the jQuery in our controls is accessed via a separate alias (**$telerik.$**), the purpose of which is to avoid conflicts.
>

You can disable the jQuery scripts our controls bring by default via the following steps:

1. Load the custom version of jQuery you want to use. At this point you have the jQuery embedded in the Telerik controls and the custom one that is loaded via the following code. Proceed to the next step if you want to replace the embedded version with the custom one.

	**ASP.NET**
	
		<head>
		    <script src="http://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.9.1.min.js"></script>
		    ...
		</head>


1. Disable the embedded jQuery library as described in [Disabling the embedded jQuery]({%slug scriptmanager/disabling-the-embedded-jquery%}) help article.

1. Configure the ScriptReferences in **RadScriptManager** as shown in following sample. The script that integrates the external jQuery library in our client-side library is located in the file **jQueryExternal.js**.

	**ASP.NET**
	
		<telerik:RadScriptManager runat="server" ID="RadScriptManager2" EnableEmbeddedjQuery="false">
		    <Scripts>
		        <asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.Core.js" />
		        <asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.jQueryExternal.js" />
		        <asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.jQueryPlugins.js" />
		    </Scripts>
		</telerik:RadScriptManager>


>important The Telerik controls depend on the specific version of jQuery they are tested against (above you can check the version that is used in each release of UI for ASP.NET AJAX). It is possible that using an older version of jQuery or a version, greater than the latestone from the [jQuery Version History in Telerik UI Controls](#jquery-version-history-in-telerik-ui-controls) section, will break the controls.
>


## Using the jQuery Brought by Telerik

After including the jQuery file you can start using it. There is a trick though - the jQuery object is available as **$telerik.$** instead of the default **$** or jQuery aliases. This is so to avoid compatibility issues with applications which already use (other versions of)jQuery. For more info you can check the [documentation of the noConflict	](http://docs.jquery.com/Core/jQuery.noConflict) method.

Fortunately there are easy ways to enable back the **$ alias.** Choose one of the options below.

>important Make sure to add the script after the ScriptManager control.


*  Using a global variable
	
	**JavaScript**

		<script type="text/javascript">
		    window.$ = $telerik.$;
		</script> 


* Using a self-calling anonymous function (**Example 1**):

	**JavaScript**
	
		<script type="text/javascript">
			(function ($) {
				$(document).ready(function () {
					alert("Hooray! The document is ready!");
				}
		   );
			})($telerik.$);
		</script> 


* Using the **$telerik.$** alias:

	**JavaScript**
	
		<script type="text/javascript">
			$telerik.$(document).ready(function () {
				alert("Document is ready");
			});
		</script> 


* Include a script reference to the **Telerik.Web.UI.Common.jQueryInclude.js**:

	**ASP.NET**

		<telerik:RadScriptManager ID="RadScriptManager1" runat="server">
		   <Scripts>
		   ......
		          <asp:ScriptReference Assembly="Telerik.Web.UI" Name="Telerik.Web.UI.Common.jQueryInclude.js" />
		   </Scripts>
		</telerik:RadScriptManager> 




>caution Note that loading jQueryInclude.js in a script manager will take the global jQuery object and any (external) jQuery loaded later won’t be initialized.
>

Use any of the approaches above.

**Example 1**: Using a self-calling anonymous function to reference jQuery instance.

````ASP.NET
<telerik:RadScriptManager runat="server" ID="RadScriptManager1">
</telerik:RadScriptManager>
<telerik:RadComboBox RenderMode="Lightweight" runat="server" ID="RadComboBox1" Width="300px" Skin="Telerik">
   <Items>
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="ASP.NET AJAX UI Controls" />
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="WinForms UI Controls" />
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="WPF UI Controls" />
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="Silverlight UI Controls" />
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="Telerik Reporting" />
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="Telerik OpenAccess ORM" />
       <telerik:RadComboBoxItem Text="Telerik Sitefinity CMS" />
   </Items>
</telerik:RadComboBox>
<script type="text/javascript">
	(function ($) {
		$(document).ready(function () {
			$('.rcbItem')
           .mouseover(function () {
           	$(this).stop().animate({ paddingLeft: "30px" }, { duration: 300 });
           })
           .mouseout(function () {
           	$(this).stop().animate({ paddingLeft: "4px" }, { duration: 300 });
           });
		});
	})($telerik.$);
</script> 
````

## jQuery Version History in Telerik UI Controls

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX R1 2019 - present are using a modified jQuery version 1.12.4 that includes security vulnerability backport fixes. Find more info in the [Embedded jQuery Security](#embedded-jquery-security) section.

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX R2 2018 SP1 - R3 2018 are using jQuery version 1.12.4 (downgraded from 3.3.1 in R2 2018 due to incompatibilities with the MS AJAX framework and its __doPostBack() method - [see more](https://www.telerik.com/forums/known-issues-and-important-changes#KKI7NGE4P0K-jwQGL525dA)).

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX R2 2018 - is using jQuery version 3.3.1. It has [known issues](https://www.telerik.com/forums/known-issues-and-important-changes#KKI7NGE4P0K-jwQGL525dA) and we recommend using R2 2018 SP1.

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q3 2014 - R1 2018 are using jQuery version 1.11.1

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q1 2013 SP1 - Q2 2014 SP1 are using jQuery version 1.9.1

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q1 2012 SP1 - Q1 2013 are using jQuery version 1.7.2

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q3 2011 SP1 / Q1 2012 are using jQuery version 1.7.1

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q2 2011 SP1 / Q3 2011 are using jQuery version 1.6.4

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q2 2011 are using jQuery version 1.6.2

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q1 2011 SP1 / SP2 are using jQuery version 1.5.2

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q1 2011 are using jQuery version 1.5.1

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q3 2010 SP1 / SP2 are using jQuery version 1.4.4

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q3 2010 are using jQuery version 1.4.3

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q1 / Q2 2010 are using jQuery version 1.4.2

Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX Q1 / Q2 2009 are using jQuery version 1.3.2


## Telerik UI Controls Using jQuery

As of Q3 2008, the Telerik.Web.UI assembly includes the jQuery JavaScript library. **Table 1** shows a list of Telerik controls that are using jQuery.

>caption Table 1: Telerik UI controls which use jQuery.

|  Control name  |  Version  |
| ------ | ------ |
|RadAjaxLoadingPanel|Q3 2009|
|RadButton|Q3 2010|
|RadCalendar|Q3 2009|
|RadComboBox|Q1 2009|
|RadContextMenu|Q1 2009|
|RadDatePicker|Q3 2009|
|RadDateTimePicker|Q3 2009|
|RadDock|Q1 2009|
|RadEditor|Q3 2009|
|RadFileExplorer|Q3 2009|
|RadGrid (when using declarative client-side binding or column animations)|Q3 2008 -[ declarative client-side binding ](https://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/grid/examples/client/declarativedatabinding/defaultcs.aspx)Q2 2010 -[ column animations ](https://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/grid/examples/client/columnanimation/defaultcs.aspx)|
|RadInputManager|Q1 2009|
|RadImageEditor|Q2 2011|
|RadListView|Q1 2012|
|RadMenu|Q1 2009|
|RadMonthYearPicker|Q1 2011|
|RadNotification|Q2 2011|
|RadOrgChart|Q3 2011|
|RadPanelBar|Q1 2009|
|RadRibbonBar|Q1 2011|
|RadRating|Q1 2011|
|RadRotator|Q1 2009|
|RadScheduler|Q3 2008|
|RadSlider|Q1 2009|
|RadSocialShare|Q3 2011|
|RadSpell|Q1 2010|
|RadSplitter|Q1 2009|
|RadTagCloud|Q2 2010|
|RadTicker|Q1 2009|
|RadTileList|Q2 2013|
|RadTimePicker|Q3 2009|
|RadToolTip|Q1 2009|
|RadTreeView|Q3 2008|
|RadWindow|Q1 2009|
|RadXmlHttpPanel|Q3 2010|

## Embedded jQuery Security

The jQuery library introduces a breaking change in version 3.0 and uses `strict mode` via a `use strict` directive. The strict mode sets limits, such as accessing the caller of a function or using `eval()`. Such limitations affect the MS AJAX framework where the `__doPostBack()` method recursively accesses the callers. More information can be found here:

* [jQuery Core 3.0 Upgrade Guide - Breaking change: jQuery 3.0 runs in Strict Mode](https://jquery.com/upgrade-guide/3.0/#breaking-change-jquery-3-0-runs-in-strict-mode) - "_If you are still using a version of ASP.NET that still does this, keep using jQuery 2.x or earlier._"

* [The ASP.NET AJAX scripts are incompatible with "use strict"](https://developercommunity.visualstudio.com/content/problem/166951/the-aspnet-ajax-scripts-are-incompatible-with-use.html) bug report to Microsoft for .NET framework 

* [WTF! MicrosoftAjax.js vs ‘use strict’ vs Firefox vs IE](https://mnaoumov.wordpress.com/2016/02/12/wtf-microsoftajax-js-vs-use-strict-vs-firefox-vs-ie/) blog post  

This incompatibility does not allow the controls to use jQuery 3.x as an embedded version. You can load the latest jQuery on the page and use it for custom logic. Both version can be loaded simultaneously on the page as explained in [Including external jQuery](#including-external-jquery).

As of R1 2019, Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX ships a custom jQuery 1.12.4, with backport fixes incorporated to eliminate [known vulnerability issues for 1.12.4 version](https://www.cvedetails.com/vulnerability-list/vendor_id-6538/product_id-11031/version_id-286372/Jquery-Jquery-1.12.4.html). Here is a list of fixes introduced to the shipped custom embedded jQuery script.

### Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX R2 2020

* [Cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability in jQuery.htmlPrefilter fixed in jQuery 3.5](https://blog.jquery.com/2020/04/10/jquery-3-5-0-released/)

### Telerik® UI for ASP.NET AJAX R1 2019

* [jQuery before 3.0.0 is vulnerable to Cross-site Scripting (XSS) attacks when a cross-domain Ajax request is performed without the dataType option, causing text/javascript responses to be executed](https://www.cvedetails.com/cve/CVE-2015-9251/)

* [Query before 3.4.0, as used in Drupal, Backdrop CMS, and other products, mishandles jQuery.extend(true, {}, ...) because of Object.prototype pollution. If an unsanitized source object contained an enumerable `__proto__` property, it could extend the native Object.prototype](https://www.cvedetails.com/cve/CVE-2019-11358/)



### See Also

 * [What is jQuery?]({%slug general-information/using-jquery/what-is-jquery%})

 * [jQuery Intellisense]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/using-jquery/jquery-intellisense%})
 
 * [Disabling the Embedded jQuery]({%slug scriptmanager/disabling-the-embedded-jquery%})
