introduction.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
page_title: Introduction | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Introduction
slug: introduction/introduction
tags: introduction
published: True
position: 0
---

# Introduction


![introduction-Telerik UI for aspnet-ajax logo documentation](images/introduction-Telerik_UI_for_aspnet-ajax_logo_documentation.png)


Thank you for choosing Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX!

The Telerik ASP.NET AJAX controls suite includes more than 80 versatile and performance-optimized components that help you build high-quality, professional line-of-business projects.From the leading AJAX data grid to the full-featured HTML editor used by Microsoft on sites like MSDN, Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX provides you with all the building blocks	to maximize productivity and build richer, slicker and better-performing applications with ease.

To read more about the benefits of using Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX, please visit the [product overview page](http://www.telerik.com/products/aspnet-ajax.aspx).

Here are quick links to the control-specific sections of our documentation:

* [Ajax]({%slug ajax/overview%})

* [AsyncUpload]({%slug asyncupload/overview%})

* [AutoCompleteBox]({%slug autocompletebox/overview%})

* [Barcode]({%slug barcode/overview%})

* [Button]({%slug button/telerik's-asp.net-button-overview%})

* [BinaryImage]({%slug controls/radbinaryimage%})

* [Calendar]({%slug calendar/overview%})

* [Captcha]({%slug captcha/overview%})

* [Chart (HTML5)]({%slug htmlchart/overview%})

* [ClientDataSource]({%slug clientdatasource/overview%})

* [ClientExportManager]({%slug clientexportmanager/overview%})

* [CloudUpload]({%slug cloudupload/overview%})

* [ColorPicker]({%slug colorpicker/overview%})

* [ComboBox]({%slug combobox/overview%})

* [Compression]({%slug controls/radcompression%})

* [DataPager]({%slug datapager/overview%})

* [DataForm]({%slug dataform/overview%})

* [Diagram]({%slug diagram/overview%})

* [Dock]({%slug dock/overview%})

* [DropDownList]({%slug dropdownlist/overview%})

* [DropDownTree]({%slug dropdowntree/overview%})

* [Editor]({%slug editor/overview%})

* [FileExplorer]({%slug fileexplorer/overview%})

* [Filter]({%slug filter/overview%})

* [FormDecorator]({%slug formdecorator/overview%})

* [Gantt]({%slug gantt/overview%})

* [Gauge]({%slug gauge/overview%})

* [Grid]({%slug grid/overview%})

* [ImageEditor]({%slug imageeditor/overview%})

* [ImageGallery]({%slug imagegallery/overview%})

* [Input]({%slug input/overview%})

* [LightBox]({%slug lightbox/overview%})

* [ListBox]({%slug listbox/overview%})

* [ListView]({%slug listview/overview%})

* [Map]({%slug map/overview%})

* [MediaPlayer]({%slug mediaplayer/overview%})

* [Menu]({%slug menu/overview%})

* [Navigation]({%slug navigation/overview%})

* [Notification]({%slug notification/overview%})

* [ODataDataSource]({%slug odatadatasource/overview%})

* [OrgChart]({%slug orgchart/overview/overview%})

* [PageLayout]({%slug pagelayout/overview%})

* [PanelBar]({%slug panelbar/overview/overview%})

* [PdfProcessing]({%slug radpdfprocessing-overview%})

* [PersistenceFramework]({%slug persistenceframework/overview%})

* [PivotGrid]({%slug pivotgrid/overview%})

* [ProgressArea]({%slug progressarea/overview%})

* [ProgressBar]({%slug progressbar/overview%})

* [Rating]({%slug rating/overview%})

* [RibbonBar]({%slug ribbonbar/overview%})

* [Rotator]({%slug rotator/overview%})

* [Scheduler]({%slug scheduler/overview%})

* [ScriptManager]({%slug scriptmanager/overview%})

* [SearchBox]({%slug searchbox/overview%})

* [SiteMap]({%slug sitemap/overview%})

* [SkinManager]({%slug controls/radskinmanager%})

* [Slider]({%slug slider/overview%})

* [SocialShare]({%slug socialshare/overview%})

* [Spell]({%slug spell/overview%})

* [Splitter]({%slug splitter/overview%})

* [SpreadProcessing]({%slug radspreadprocessing-overview%})

* [Spreadsheet]({%slug spreadsheet/overview%})

* [StyleSheetManager]({%slug stylesheetmanager/overview%})

* [TabStrip]({%slug tabstrip/overview%})

* [TagCloud]({%slug tagcloud/overview%})

* [TileList]({%slug tilelist/overview%})

* [ToolBar]({%slug toolbar/overview%})

* [ToolTip]({%slug tooltip/overview%})

* [TreeList]({%slug treelist/overview%})

* [TreeMap]({%slug treemap/overview%})

* [TreeView]({%slug treeview/overview%})

* [Window]({%slug window/overview%})

* [Wizard]({%slug wizard/overview%})

* [WordsProcessing]({%slug radwordsprocessing-overview%})

* [XmlHttpPanel]({%slug xmlhttppanel/overview%})

* [ZipLibrary]({%slug radziplibrary-overview%})


Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX works on the .NET v3.5, 4.0, 4.5 and 4.6 frameworks.


If you need further assistance you can post your question in the [UI for ASP.NET AJAX forums](http://www.telerik.com/community/forums/aspnet-ajax.aspx) or use the [online ticketing system](http://www.telerik.com/account/support-tickets/available-support-list.aspx).

Commit message:

added info for 32/64 bit machines

introduction.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
page_title: Introduction | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Introduction
slug: introduction/introduction
tags: introduction
published: True
position: 0
---

# Introduction


![introduction-Telerik UI for aspnet-ajax logo documentation](images/introduction-Telerik_UI_for_aspnet-ajax_logo_documentation.png)


Thank you for choosing Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX!

The Telerik ASP.NET AJAX controls suite includes more than 80 versatile and performance-optimized components that help you build high-quality, professional line-of-business projects.From the leading AJAX data grid to the full-featured HTML editor used by Microsoft on sites like MSDN, Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX provides you with all the building blocks	to maximize productivity and build richer, slicker and better-performing applications with ease.

To read more about the benefits of using Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX, please visit the [product overview page](http://www.telerik.com/products/aspnet-ajax.aspx).

Here are quick links to the control-specific sections of our documentation:

* [Ajax]({%slug ajax/overview%})

* [AsyncUpload]({%slug asyncupload/overview%})

* [AutoCompleteBox]({%slug autocompletebox/overview%})

* [Barcode]({%slug barcode/overview%})

* [Button]({%slug button/telerik's-asp.net-button-overview%})

* [BinaryImage]({%slug controls/radbinaryimage%})

* [Calendar]({%slug calendar/overview%})

* [Captcha]({%slug captcha/overview%})

* [Chart (HTML5)]({%slug htmlchart/overview%})

* [ClientDataSource]({%slug clientdatasource/overview%})

* [ClientExportManager]({%slug clientexportmanager/overview%})

* [CloudUpload]({%slug cloudupload/overview%})

* [ColorPicker]({%slug colorpicker/overview%})

* [ComboBox]({%slug combobox/overview%})

* [Compression]({%slug controls/radcompression%})

* [DataPager]({%slug datapager/overview%})

* [DataForm]({%slug dataform/overview%})

* [Diagram]({%slug diagram/overview%})

* [Dock]({%slug dock/overview%})

* [DropDownList]({%slug dropdownlist/overview%})

* [DropDownTree]({%slug dropdowntree/overview%})

* [Editor]({%slug editor/overview%})

* [FileExplorer]({%slug fileexplorer/overview%})

* [Filter]({%slug filter/overview%})

* [FormDecorator]({%slug formdecorator/overview%})

* [Gantt]({%slug gantt/overview%})

* [Gauge]({%slug gauge/overview%})

* [Grid]({%slug grid/overview%})

* [ImageEditor]({%slug imageeditor/overview%})

* [ImageGallery]({%slug imagegallery/overview%})

* [Input]({%slug input/overview%})

* [LightBox]({%slug lightbox/overview%})

* [ListBox]({%slug listbox/overview%})

* [ListView]({%slug listview/overview%})

* [Map]({%slug map/overview%})

* [MediaPlayer]({%slug mediaplayer/overview%})

* [Menu]({%slug menu/overview%})

* [Navigation]({%slug navigation/overview%})

* [Notification]({%slug notification/overview%})

* [ODataDataSource]({%slug odatadatasource/overview%})

* [OrgChart]({%slug orgchart/overview/overview%})

* [PageLayout]({%slug pagelayout/overview%})

* [PanelBar]({%slug panelbar/overview/overview%})

* [PdfProcessing]({%slug radpdfprocessing-overview%})

* [PersistenceFramework]({%slug persistenceframework/overview%})

* [PivotGrid]({%slug pivotgrid/overview%})

* [ProgressArea]({%slug progressarea/overview%})

* [ProgressBar]({%slug progressbar/overview%})

* [Rating]({%slug rating/overview%})

* [RibbonBar]({%slug ribbonbar/overview%})

* [Rotator]({%slug rotator/overview%})

* [Scheduler]({%slug scheduler/overview%})

* [ScriptManager]({%slug scriptmanager/overview%})

* [SearchBox]({%slug searchbox/overview%})

* [SiteMap]({%slug sitemap/overview%})

* [SkinManager]({%slug controls/radskinmanager%})

* [Slider]({%slug slider/overview%})

* [SocialShare]({%slug socialshare/overview%})

* [Spell]({%slug spell/overview%})

* [Splitter]({%slug splitter/overview%})

* [SpreadProcessing]({%slug radspreadprocessing-overview%})

* [Spreadsheet]({%slug spreadsheet/overview%})

* [StyleSheetManager]({%slug stylesheetmanager/overview%})

* [TabStrip]({%slug tabstrip/overview%})

* [TagCloud]({%slug tagcloud/overview%})

* [TileList]({%slug tilelist/overview%})

* [ToolBar]({%slug toolbar/overview%})

* [ToolTip]({%slug tooltip/overview%})

* [TreeList]({%slug treelist/overview%})

* [TreeMap]({%slug treemap/overview%})

* [TreeView]({%slug treeview/overview%})

* [Window]({%slug window/overview%})

* [Wizard]({%slug wizard/overview%})

* [WordsProcessing]({%slug radwordsprocessing-overview%})

* [XmlHttpPanel]({%slug xmlhttppanel/overview%})

* [ZipLibrary]({%slug radziplibrary-overview%})


Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX works on the .NET v3.5, 4.0, 4.5 and 4.6 frameworks. The same assemblies work for both 32bit and 64bit machines.


If you need further assistance you can post your question in the [UI for ASP.NET AJAX forums](http://www.telerik.com/community/forums/aspnet-ajax.aspx) or use the [online ticketing system](http://www.telerik.com/account/support-tickets/available-support-list.aspx).
