api/client/Telerik.Web.UI.ButtonListItem.md, before:

---
title: Telerik.Web.UI.ButtonListItem
page_title: Client-side API Reference
description: Telerik.Web.UI.ButtonListItem
slug: Telerik.Web.UI.ButtonListItem
---

# Telerik.Web.UI.ButtonListItem  

## Methods

### get_text

Gets the text of the item.

#### Parameters

#### Returns

`String` The text of the item.

### set_text

Sets the text of the item.

#### Parameters

##### value `String`

The text of the item.

#### Returns

`None` 

### get_value

Gets the value of the item.

#### Parameters

#### Returns

`String` The value of the item.

### set_value

Sets the value of the item.

#### Parameters

##### value `String`

The value of the item.

#### Returns

`None` 

### get_selected

Gets the selected state of the item.

#### Parameters

#### Returns

`Boolean` The selected state of the item.

### set_selected

Sets the selected state of the item.

#### Parameters

##### value `Boolean`

The selected state of the item.

#### Returns

`None` 

### get_enabled

Gets whether the item is enabled.

#### Parameters

#### Returns

`Boolean` A value showing whether the item is enabled.

### set_enabled

Specifies whether the item is enabled.

#### Parameters

##### value `Boolean`

A value that specifies whether the item is enabled.

#### Returns

`None`

Commit message:

docs(checkboxlist): add info on getting selected items

api/client/Telerik.Web.UI.ButtonListItem.md, after:

---
title: Telerik.Web.UI.ButtonListItem
page_title: Client-side API Reference
description: Telerik.Web.UI.ButtonListItem
slug: Telerik.Web.UI.ButtonListItem
---

# Telerik.Web.UI.ButtonListItem  

This class represents the individual item of a RadCheckBoxList or RadRadioButtonList. You can use the methods to get the current state of the items, or to set it. Note, however, that changes are not sent to the server or persisted after a postback. The only exception is the set_selected() method that can select or deselect an item.

## Methods

### get_text

Gets the text of the item.

#### Parameters

#### Returns

`String` The text of the item.

### set_text

Sets the text of the item.

#### Parameters

##### value `String`

The text of the item.

#### Returns

`None` 

### get_value

Gets the value of the item.

#### Parameters

#### Returns

`String` The value of the item.

### set_value

Sets the value of the item.

#### Parameters

##### value `String`

The value of the item.

#### Returns

`None` 

### get_selected

Gets the selected state of the item.

#### Parameters

#### Returns

`Boolean` The selected state of the item.

### set_selected

Sets the selected state of the item.

#### Parameters

##### value `Boolean`

The selected state of the item.

#### Returns

`None` 

### get_enabled

Gets whether the item is enabled.

#### Parameters

#### Returns

`Boolean` A value showing whether the item is enabled.

### set_enabled

Specifies whether the item is enabled.

#### Parameters

##### value `Boolean`

A value that specifies whether the item is enabled.

#### Returns

`None`
