controls/button/functionality/single-click-button.md, before:

---
title: Single Click Button
page_title: Single Click Button | RadButton for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Single Click Button
slug: button/functionality/single-click-button
tags: single,click,button
published: True
position: 0
---

# Single Click Button



## 

The single click button (**Figure 1**) is used to avoid multiple postbacks/callbacks to the server. This feature is useful in database and/or e-mail send scenarios when the developer should prevent submitting of identical content multiple times to the server.

>note The single click functionality is available only for buttons that make postbacks. For example the functionality is not available for the LinkButton because it acts as an anchor element.

>caption Figure 1: RadButton with SingeClick functionality before and after click.

![button-single-click](images/button-single-click.png)

The following properties should be used to enable the single click functionality:

* **SingleClick** - determines whether the **RadButton** control will be immediately disabled after the user clicks it. Set it to **true** to enable the single click functionality.

* **SingleClickText** - determines the text displayed in the **RadButton** control after the button is being clicked and disabled.

>caption Example 1: The code that enables the single click functionality in **RadButton** from **Figure 1**.

````ASP.NET
<asp:TextBox ID="txtName" runat="server" />

<telerik:RadButton RenderMode="Lightweight" ID="btnSubmit" runat="server" Text="Submit" OnClick="btnSubmit_Click"
	SingleClick="true"  SingleClickText="Processing...">
</telerik:RadButton>

<asp:Label ID="lblGreeting" runat="server" />
````

````C#
protected void btnSubmit_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
	if (Page.IsPostBack) System.Threading.Thread.Sleep(3000);
	lblGreeting.Text = String.Format("Hello, {0}!", txtName.Text);
}
````
````VB
Protected Sub btnSubmit_Click(sender As Object, e As System.EventArgs) Handles btnSubmit.Click
	If Page.IsPostBack Then
		System.Threading.Thread.Sleep(3000)
	End If
	lblGreeting.Text = String.Format("Hello, {0}!", txtName.Text)
End Sub
````

The submitted text is processed on the server-side. Note that the method **System.Threading.Thread.Sleep**	is used so that the disabled button can be examined after clicking it.

## See Also

 * [Single Click Button Demo](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/button/examples/singleclick/defaultcs.aspx)

Commit message:

docs(button): Add info what is rendered when SingleClick is enabled

controls/button/functionality/single-click-button.md, after:

---
title: Single Click Button
page_title: Single Click Button | RadButton for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Single Click Button
slug: button/functionality/single-click-button
tags: single,click,button
published: True
position: 0
---

# Single Click Button



## 

The single click button (**Figure 1**) is used to avoid multiple postbacks/callbacks to the server. This feature is useful in database and/or e-mail send scenarios when the developer should prevent submitting of identical content multiple times to the server.

>note The single click functionality is available only for buttons that make postbacks. For example the functionality is not available for the LinkButton because it acts as an anchor element. 
>
>When the single click functionality is enabled, the button is rendered as `<button type="button">` instead of a `<button type="submit">` and that takes precedence over the `UseSubmitBehavior` property.

>caption Figure 1: RadButton with SingeClick functionality before and after click.

![button-single-click](images/button-single-click.png)

The following properties should be used to enable the single click functionality:

* **SingleClick** - determines whether the **RadButton** control will be immediately disabled after the user clicks it. Set it to **true** to enable the single click functionality.

* **SingleClickText** - determines the text displayed in the **RadButton** control after the button is being clicked and disabled.

>caption Example 1: The code that enables the single click functionality in **RadButton** from **Figure 1**.

````ASP.NET
<asp:TextBox ID="txtName" runat="server" />

<telerik:RadButton RenderMode="Lightweight" ID="btnSubmit" runat="server" Text="Submit" OnClick="btnSubmit_Click"
	SingleClick="true"  SingleClickText="Processing...">
</telerik:RadButton>

<asp:Label ID="lblGreeting" runat="server" />
````

````C#
protected void btnSubmit_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
	if (Page.IsPostBack) System.Threading.Thread.Sleep(3000);
	lblGreeting.Text = String.Format("Hello, {0}!", txtName.Text);
}
````
````VB
Protected Sub btnSubmit_Click(sender As Object, e As System.EventArgs) Handles btnSubmit.Click
	If Page.IsPostBack Then
		System.Threading.Thread.Sleep(3000)
	End If
	lblGreeting.Text = String.Format("Hello, {0}!", txtName.Text)
End Sub
````

The submitted text is processed on the server-side. Note that the method **System.Threading.Thread.Sleep**	is used so that the disabled button can be examined after clicking it.

## See Also

 * [Single Click Button Demo](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/button/examples/singleclick/defaultcs.aspx)
