controls/rotator/data-binding/client-side-data-binding.md, before:

---
title: Client-side Data Binding
page_title: Client-side Data Binding | RadRotator for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Client-side Data Binding
slug: rotator/data-binding/client-side-data-binding
tags: client-side,data,binding
published: True
position: 2
---

# Client-side Data Binding

This article introduces the client-side data binding feature of the **RadRotator** control.

## Getting Started with Client-side Data Binding

The **RadRotator** can be bound to various type of data sources to populate its items. To create a proper data binding you cause the **RadClientDataSource** control or fetch an already retrieved data via the **dataBind()** method, available in the Rotator's [Client-side API]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/overview%}).

The layout of the bound Rotator items should be defined in the **ClientTemplate** inner tag. You can create their design with HTML code where the fetched data source fields should be set with this syntax - **#= datasourceField #**.

The following two sections will provide more details about the data binding.

## Simple Data Binding

Simple data binding is used when the desired data source is already retrieved from the web service or from another appropriate source. **Example 1** demonstrates how a simple JS array can be used for data binding, by using the **dataBind()** method in a function attached to the	[OnClientLoad event of the Rotator]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/events/onclientload%}). The result of this implementation is shown in **Figure 1**.

>caption **Figure 1**: RadRotator control bound to a simple JS array.

![rotator simple databinding](images/Client-side-databinding/rotator_simple_databinding.png)

**Example 1**: Simple data binding.



````ASP.NET
<telerik:RadRotator RenderMode="Lightweight" runat="server" ID="RadRotator1" RotatorType="Buttons" 
	Width="370" Height="100"  ItemWidth="100" ItemHeight="100" OnClientLoad="OnClientLoad">
	<ClientTemplate>
		<h4 class="productName">#= ProductName #</h4>
		<div class="productId"><span>Product ID: </span>#= ProductID #</div>
		<div class="price"><span>Price: </span>#= UnitPrice #$</div>
	</ClientTemplate>
</telerik:RadRotator>

<script type="text/javascript">
	var datasource = [
		{ ProductID: 1, ProductName: "Product 1", UnitPrice: "12" },
		{ ProductID: 2, ProductName: "Product 2", UnitPrice: "14" },
		{ ProductID: 3, ProductName: "Product 3", UnitPrice: "15" },
		{ ProductID: 4, ProductName: "Product 4", UnitPrice: "11" }
	];

	function OnClientLoad(sender, args) {
		sender.set_dataSource(datasource);
		sender.dataBind();
	}
</script>
````

````CSS
<style type="text/css">
	.rrItem {
		border-right:1px solid black;
		padding:5px;
	}

	.rrItem .productName {
		text-align:center;
		background-color:black;
		color:white;
	}
</style>
````

## Using RadClientDataSource for Data Binding

The **RadClientDataSource** provides the ability to connect to a web service and fetch data to bind any appropriate Telerik control. After configuring the ClientDataSource with the needed settings, all you need is to set its ID to the **ClientDataSourceID** property	of the **RadRotator** control. **Example 2** demonstrates a sample implementation of such approach and the corresponding result is shown in **Figure 2**.

>caption **Figure 2**: Data bound Rotator via RadClientDataSource control.

![rotator using radclientdatasource](images/Client-side-databinding/rotator_using_radclientdatasource.png)

**Example 2:** Using **RadClientDataSource** control for Rotator data binding.

````ASP.NET
 <telerik:RadClientDataSource runat="server" ID="RadClientDataSource1" PageSize="5" AllowPaging="true">
	<DataSource>
		<WebServiceDataSourceSettings BaseUrl="http://demos.kendoui.com/service/">
			<Select Url="Products" DataType="JSONP" />
		</WebServiceDataSourceSettings>
	</DataSource>
 </telerik:RadClientDataSource>
 
 <telerik:RadRotator RenderMode="Lightweight" runat="server" ID="Rotator" ClientDataSourceID="RadClientDataSource1"
	RotatorType="Buttons" Width="370" Height="100"  ItemWidth="100" ItemHeight="100">
	<ClientTemplate>
		 <h4 class="productName">#= ProductName #</h4>
		<div class="productId"><span>Product ID: </span>#= ProductID #</div>
		<div class="price"><span>Price: </span>#= UnitPrice #$</div>
	</ClientTemplate>
 </telerik:RadRotator>
````

````CSS
<style type="text/css">
	.rrItem {
		border-right:1px solid black;
		padding:5px;
	}

	.rrItem .productName {
		text-align:center;
		background-color:black;
		color:white;
	}
</style>
````

# See Also

 * [RadRotator Client-Side API]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/overview%})

 * [OnClientLoad]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/events/onclientload%})

 * [OnClientDataBound Event]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/events/onclientdatabound%})

 * [OnClientItemDataBound Event]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/events/onclientitemdatabound%})

 * [OnClientTemplateDataBound Event]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/events/onclienttemplatedatabound%})

Commit message:

docs(rotator): client binding limitation for carousel and coverflow

controls/rotator/data-binding/client-side-data-binding.md, after:

---
title: Client-side Data Binding
page_title: Client-side Data Binding | RadRotator for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Client-side Data Binding
slug: rotator/data-binding/client-side-data-binding
tags: client-side,data,binding
published: True
position: 2
---

# Client-side Data Binding

This article introduces the client-side data binding feature of the **RadRotator** control.

## Getting Started with Client-side Data Binding

The **RadRotator** can be bound to various type of data sources to populate its items. To create a proper data binding you cause the **RadClientDataSource** control or fetch an already retrieved data via the **dataBind()** method, available in the Rotator's [Client-side API]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/overview%}).

The layout of the bound Rotator items should be defined in the **ClientTemplate** inner tag. You can create their design with HTML code where the fetched data source fields should be set with this syntax - **#= datasourceField #**.

The following two sections will provide more details about the data binding.

## Simple Data Binding

Simple data binding is used when the desired data source is already retrieved from the web service or from another appropriate source. **Example 1** demonstrates how a simple JS array can be used for data binding, by using the **dataBind()** method in a function attached to the	[OnClientLoad event of the Rotator]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/events/onclientload%}). The result of this implementation is shown in **Figure 1**.

>caption **Figure 1**: RadRotator control bound to a simple JS array.

![rotator simple databinding](images/Client-side-databinding/rotator_simple_databinding.png)

**Example 1**: Simple data binding.



````ASP.NET
<telerik:RadRotator RenderMode="Lightweight" runat="server" ID="RadRotator1" RotatorType="Buttons" 
	Width="370" Height="100"  ItemWidth="100" ItemHeight="100" OnClientLoad="OnClientLoad">
	<ClientTemplate>
		<h4 class="productName">#= ProductName #</h4>
		<div class="productId"><span>Product ID: </span>#= ProductID #</div>
		<div class="price"><span>Price: </span>#= UnitPrice #$</div>
	</ClientTemplate>
</telerik:RadRotator>

<script type="text/javascript">
	var datasource = [
		{ ProductID: 1, ProductName: "Product 1", UnitPrice: "12" },
		{ ProductID: 2, ProductName: "Product 2", UnitPrice: "14" },
		{ ProductID: 3, ProductName: "Product 3", UnitPrice: "15" },
		{ ProductID: 4, ProductName: "Product 4", UnitPrice: "11" }
	];

	function OnClientLoad(sender, args) {
		sender.set_dataSource(datasource);
		sender.dataBind();
	}
</script>
````

````CSS
<style type="text/css">
	.rrItem {
		border-right:1px solid black;
		padding:5px;
	}

	.rrItem .productName {
		text-align:center;
		background-color:black;
		color:white;
	}
</style>
````

>note Data binding the rotator for the second time to a new data source is **not** possible with the **Carousel** and **Coverflow** modes. These 4 modes do not provide [client-side items management](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/rotator/examples/clientapiitemsmanagement/defaultcs.aspx) and the new items cannot be cleared and re-created correctly. You can either use a different `RotatorType`, or bind the rotator on the server during an AJAX request. 

## Using RadClientDataSource for Data Binding

The **RadClientDataSource** provides the ability to connect to a web service and fetch data to bind any appropriate Telerik control. After configuring the ClientDataSource with the needed settings, all you need is to set its ID to the **ClientDataSourceID** property	of the **RadRotator** control. **Example 2** demonstrates a sample implementation of such approach and the corresponding result is shown in **Figure 2**.

>caption **Figure 2**: Data bound Rotator via RadClientDataSource control.

![rotator using radclientdatasource](images/Client-side-databinding/rotator_using_radclientdatasource.png)

**Example 2:** Using **RadClientDataSource** control for Rotator data binding.

````ASP.NET
 <telerik:RadClientDataSource runat="server" ID="RadClientDataSource1" PageSize="5" AllowPaging="true">
	<DataSource>
		<WebServiceDataSourceSettings BaseUrl="http://demos.kendoui.com/service/">
			<Select Url="Products" DataType="JSONP" />
		</WebServiceDataSourceSettings>
	</DataSource>
 </telerik:RadClientDataSource>
 
 <telerik:RadRotator RenderMode="Lightweight" runat="server" ID="Rotator" ClientDataSourceID="RadClientDataSource1"
	RotatorType="Buttons" Width="370" Height="100"  ItemWidth="100" ItemHeight="100">
	<ClientTemplate>
		 <h4 class="productName">#= ProductName #</h4>
		<div class="productId"><span>Product ID: </span>#= ProductID #</div>
		<div class="price"><span>Price: </span>#= UnitPrice #$</div>
	</ClientTemplate>
 </telerik:RadRotator>
````

````CSS
<style type="text/css">
	.rrItem {
		border-right:1px solid black;
		padding:5px;
	}

	.rrItem .productName {
		text-align:center;
		background-color:black;
		color:white;
	}
</style>
````

# See Also

 * [RadRotator Client-Side API]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/overview%})

 * [OnClientLoad]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/events/onclientload%})

 * [OnClientDataBound Event]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/events/onclientdatabound%})

 * [OnClientItemDataBound Event]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/events/onclientitemdatabound%})

 * [OnClientTemplateDataBound Event]({%slug rotator/client-side-programming/events/onclienttemplatedatabound%})
