_templates/common/primary-action-button.md, before:

#intro

@{control1} can be a Primary Action Button (**Figure 1**).

The primary action button on the form has bright and saturated colors to pop up more and catch attention easily. You should use a primary action button to make the default/preferred/main/safe operation on the form stand out. At this point the rest of the buttons with their default appearance become Secondary Action buttons and do not draw as much attention.

>caption Figure 1: Primary @{control2} next to a default @{control2}.

![Primary action button overview](images/primary-action-button.png)
#end


#configuration-buttons

To switch to a primary action button, set the `Primary` property of the **@{control}** control to `true` (**Example 1**). The property defaults to `false` to result in the regular (secondary) button appearance for most cases.

>caption Example 1: Configure a @{control} to be a primary action button.

#end


#configuration-formdecorator

To switch to a primary action button, set the `CssClass` property of the **@{control}** to `rfdPrimaryButton` (**Example 1**). 

>caption Example 1: Configure a @{control} to be a primary action button.

#end

Commit message:

updated templates for action buttons

_templates/common/primary-action-button.md, after:

#intro-base
@{control} can be a Primary Action Button (**Figure 1**).
#end

#intro-base-release
@[template](/_templates/common/primary-action-button.md#intro-base "control: @{value1}") This feature is built-in as of **Q1 2016**.
#end

#intro-main
The primary action button on the form has bright and saturated colors to pop up more and catch attention easily. You should use a primary action button to make the default/preferred/main/safe operation on the form stand out. At this point the rest of the buttons with their default appearance become Secondary Action buttons and do not draw as much attention.

>caption Figure 1: Primary @{control} next to a default @{control}.

![Primary action button overview](images/primary-action-button.png)
#end

#configuration

To switch to a primary action button, set the `Primary` property of the **@{control}** control to `true` (**Example 1**). The property defaults to `false` to result in the regular (secondary) button appearance for most cases.

>caption Example 1: Configure a @{control} to be a primary action button.

#end
