---
title: Understanding hierarchical grid structure
page_title: Understanding hierarchical grid structure | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Understanding hierarchical grid structure
slug: grid/hierarchical-grid-types-and-load-modes/understanding-hierarchical-grid-structure
tags: understanding,hierarchical,grid,structure
published: True
position: 1
---

# Understanding hierarchical grid structure



## 

There are two general steps to implement hierarchical grid:

1. __Design the hierarchy__In this step, using the designer or code-behind you should specify the structure of the hierarchical tables. This is related to populating the collection of __DetailTables__ of RadGrid __MasterTableView__ and the corresponding columns. It is important that this step should be completed before Telerik RadGrid is bound to any data. For example the grid can have a similar structure:- MasterTableView- DetailTable(0)- DetailTable(0, 0)Each detail table (including the __MasterTableView)__ is control of type __GridTableView__. This means each control is represented by an HTML table (runtime) object. This table has __RenderColumns__, __Columns__ and__AutoGeneratedColumns__ collections(see [ Getting familiar with the server side API ]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/overview%}))properties for settings style, group and sort expressions, etc. The whole structure of Telerik RadGrid and its detail tables is saved in the __ViewState__. Therefore if you build a grid programmatically, you can safely do this on __PageInit__ or __Page_Load__ when __Not Page.IsPostBack:__(see [ Programmatic grid creation ]({%slug grid/defining-structure/creating-a-radgrid-programmatically%}))Here is a live example (presenting programmatic creation of a grid) which demonstrates the capability of Telerik RadGrid to save its structure in the __ViewState__ :[Creating hierarchy/grouping programmatically]( http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/Grid/Examples/Programming/GroupBy/DefaultCS.aspx )

1. This is the more complex step. During runtime (when data-binding) Telerik RadGrid builds special structure of items corresponding to the structure of the detail tables. For each item in the master table a new control - __GridTableView__ - will be created and will be assigned as a child of the master item. This control will be a copy of the corresponding table - that should be __DetailTable(0)__.Hence, if you have 3 items in the __MasterTableView__ in the second level of hierarchy the grid will look like this:MasterTableView+ Item(0)DetailTable0(copy 0)+ Item(1)DetailTable0 (copy 1)+ Item(2)DetailTable0 (copy 2)Here __Item(0)__ is a parent item for __DetailTable(0)__. You can obtain its instance using the __GridTableView.ParentItem__ property. As in our example, there is a third level of the hierarchy (note each of the items of the copies of DetailTable(0) will have a detail table) which is a copy of DetailTable(0, 0). For example, let's say that the copy of DetailTable(0) with index 0 has 2 items:DetailTable0 (copy 0)+ Item(0)DetailTable(0, 0) (copy 0)+ Item(1)DetailTable(0, 0) (copy 1)Each copy of the detail tables should be bound to populate its items. Telerik RadGrid delegates full control of how this can be done to the developer - you should filter or select just the records that correspond to each detail table. Telerik RadGrid only restricts *when* this will happen -either through * declarative relations * or *DetailTableDataBind* event:[Declarative hierarchy relations]( http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/Grid/Examples/Hierarchy/DeclarativeRelations/DefaultVB.aspx )[Building hierarchy with DetailTableDataBind event handling](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/Grid/Examples/Programming/DetailTableDataBind/DefaultVB.aspx)If you choose the second approach, Telerik RadGrid fires __DetailTableDataBind__ for each __DetailTable__ that is about to be bound. This event raising also depends on the __HierarchyLoadMode__ of the corresponding __GridTableView__. If the __HierarchyLoadMode__ is __ServerBind__ the __DetailTableDataBind__ event will be fired immediately after the corresponding parent item is bound. If it is __ServerOnDemand,__ the detail table will be bound as soon as its parent item is expanded. You can find more about the hierarchy load modes in this help topic:[ Hierarchy load modes ]({%slug grid/hierarchical-grid-types-and-load-modes/hierarchy-load-modes%})Inside the __DetailTableDataBind__ event handler you can determine which the detail table about to be data-bound is using its __DataMember__ property. This property should have unique value assigned in step 1.

# See Also

 * [Overview]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/overview%})
