controls/treeview/server-side-programming/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Server-side Programming Overview | RadTreeView for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Overview
slug: treeview/server-side-programming/overview
tags: overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Server-side Programming Overview



## 

Programming tasks that can be performed on the server include:

* [Traversing treeview nodes at run-time]({%slug treeview/server-side-programming/traversing-nodes%})

* [Finding nodes based on text, value or attribute]({%slug treeview/server-side-programming/finding-nodes-at-runtime%})

* [Adding Controls to the Node Controls collection]({%slug treeview/server-side-programming/using-the-node-controls-collection%})

* [Navigating to other web pages]({%slug treeview/server-side-programming/navigating-to-a-url%})

* [Server Events]({%slug treeview/server-side-programming/events/overview%})

# See Also

 * [Cloning a RadTreeView]({%slug treeview/application-scenarios/server-side-programming/cloning-a-radtreeview%})

Commit message:

docs(treeview): link the autogenerated server API

controls/treeview/server-side-programming/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Server-side Programming Overview | RadTreeView for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Overview
slug: treeview/server-side-programming/overview
tags: overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Server-side Programming Overview

For a detailed list with the server-side properties and methods of the control, see the [Server-Side API of the RadTreeView class](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/RadTreeView).

## 

Programming tasks that can be performed on the server include:

* [Traversing treeview nodes at run-time]({%slug treeview/server-side-programming/traversing-nodes%})

* [Finding nodes based on text, value or attribute]({%slug treeview/server-side-programming/finding-nodes-at-runtime%})

* [Adding Controls to the Node Controls collection]({%slug treeview/server-side-programming/using-the-node-controls-collection%})

* [Navigating to other web pages]({%slug treeview/server-side-programming/navigating-to-a-url%})

* [Server Events]({%slug treeview/server-side-programming/events/overview%})

# See Also

 * [Cloning a RadTreeView]({%slug treeview/application-scenarios/server-side-programming/cloning-a-radtreeview%})
