controls/tabstrip/server-side-programming/events.md, before:

---
title: Events
page_title: Server-side Events | RadTabStrip for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Events
slug: tabstrip/server-side-programming/events
tags: events
published: True
position: 0
---

# Events



## 

**RadTabStrip** introduces three server-side events for working with tabs:

* [TabClick]({%slug tabstrip/server-side-programming/tabclick%}) occurs when the user clicks on a tab.

* [TabCreated]({%slug tabstrip/server-side-programming/tabcreated%}) occurs when a new tab is added to the tab strip (at any level).

* [TabDataBound]({%slug tabstrip/server-side-programming/tabdatabound%}) occurs when a tab is bound to a data source.

* [Reordered]({%slug tabstrip/server-side-programming/reordered%}) occurs after the reorder operation is completed.

In addition, **RadMultiPage** introduces a single server-side event:

* [PageViewCreated]({%slug tabstrip/server-side-programming/pageviewcreated-%}) occurs when a new page view is added to the multi-page.

# See Also

 * [Events]({%slug tabstrip/client-side-programming/events%})

 * [Accessing Tabs]({%slug tabstrip/server-side-programming/accessing-tabs%})

 * [Working With Tabs at the Server]({%slug tabstrip/tabs/working-with-tabs-at-the-server%})

Commit message:

docs(tabstrip): link the autogenerated server API

controls/tabstrip/server-side-programming/events.md, after:

---
title: Events
page_title: Server-side Events | RadTabStrip for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Events
slug: tabstrip/server-side-programming/events
tags: events
published: True
position: 0
---

# Events

For a detailed list with the server-side properties and methods of the control, see the [Server-Side API of the RadTabStrip class](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/RadTabStrip).

## 

**RadTabStrip** introduces three server-side events for working with tabs:

* [TabClick]({%slug tabstrip/server-side-programming/tabclick%}) occurs when the user clicks on a tab.

* [TabCreated]({%slug tabstrip/server-side-programming/tabcreated%}) occurs when a new tab is added to the tab strip (at any level).

* [TabDataBound]({%slug tabstrip/server-side-programming/tabdatabound%}) occurs when a tab is bound to a data source.

* [Reordered]({%slug tabstrip/server-side-programming/reordered%}) occurs after the reorder operation is completed.

In addition, **RadMultiPage** introduces a single server-side event:

* [PageViewCreated]({%slug tabstrip/server-side-programming/pageviewcreated-%}) occurs when a new page view is added to the multi-page.

# See Also

 * [Events]({%slug tabstrip/client-side-programming/events%})

 * [Accessing Tabs]({%slug tabstrip/server-side-programming/accessing-tabs%})

 * [Working With Tabs at the Server]({%slug tabstrip/tabs/working-with-tabs-at-the-server%})
