---
title: Common Issues
page_title: Common Issues | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Common Issues
slug: tooltip/troubleshooting/common-issues
tags: common,issues
published: True
position: 0
---

# Common Issues



* [ToolTip is not positioned correctly](#tooltip-is-not-positioned-correctly)

* [Add IDs to the Controls Loaded by RadToolTipManager](#add-ids-to-the-controls-loaded-by-radtooltipmanager)

* [Sys.WebForms.PageRequestManagerServerErrorException and Sys.WebForms.PageRequestManagerServerErrorExecution](#sys.webforms.pagerequestmanagerservererrorexception-and-sys.webforms.pagerequestmanagerservererrorexecution)

* [Controls Loaded via AJAX Retain Old Values](#controls-loaded-via-ajax-retain-old-values)

* [The Tooltip Hides When Content Arrives](#the-tooltip-hides-when-content-arrives)

* [Invalid Postback or Callback Argument](#invalid-postback-or-callback-argument)

* [Click Events are not Fired for a Tooltipified Element](#click-events-are-not-fired-for-a-tooltipified-element)

* [Tooltips for Small Elements](#tooltips-for-small-elements)

* [Changing Borders and Fonts](#changing-borders-and-fonts)

## ToolTip is not Positioned Correctly

By default the __RadToolTip__ repositions itself so that it is always in the visible viewport. Sometimes, however,this does not happen. In that casemake sure you have set all the necessary properties for its proper functioning: __Width, Height, Position,	RelativeTo, ShowEvent, HideEvent__. Usually at least __Width__ is requiredso that the tooltip knows how big the popup needs to be in order to position it correctly on the screen. This is especially true for Load-On-Demandscenarios where the content is received after the tooltip is shown and it has no other way of calculating its position.

## Add IDs to the Controls Loaded by RadToolTipManager

In ASP, by default, ViewState is loaded per control according to its ID. This means that the control IDs should not change between postbacks in order for thecontrol tree to properly reinitialize. To avoid autogenerated IDs that may differ, __when loading controls via AJAX with RadToolTipManager you must set their IDproperty__, just like with any other control that you create dynamically.

If this is not done you may get exceptions like	`Failed to load viewstate. The control tree into which viewstate is being loaded must match the control tree that was used to save viewstate during the previous request`or a generic server error. Or, simply, input values and control properties may not be retained.

## Sys.WebForms.PageRequestManagerServerErrorException and Sys.WebForms.PageRequestManagerServerErrorExecution

Sometimes, when AJAX is used to fetch content for RadToolTipManager an error like:

* `Sys.WebForms.PageRequestManagerServerErrorException: Object reference not set to an instance of an object.`

* `Sys.WebForms.PageRequestManagerServerErrorExecution; An Unknown error occurred while processing the request on the server. the status code returned from the server was: 500`

will be thrown on the page.This is a __server error__, usually thrown by the custom code that generates the content (i.e. the __OnAjaxUpdate handler__).The error message may appear as a JavaScript error or as an alert, depending on the browser and scenario.

This is the general way server errors are shown if they happen during a partial postback and RadToolTipManager is not an exception.

In order to resolve this problem you must __debug the server-side code__ that loads the content in order to determine the actual exception, what causes it and how to fix it.

## Controls Loaded via AJAX Retain Old Values

This may happen if you are using the __OnAjaxUpdate__ event to add user controls to the tooltip's UpdatePaneland you change their values too early in the control's lifecycle. This should be done in the __OnPreRender__ eventso that their ViewState is already loaded and the values from it does not override the one you provide in your code.

## The Tooltip Hides When Content Arrives

In some cases when content is loaded on demand by RadToolTipManager's OnAjaxRequest method, the tooltip hides just when the loading indicator disappears.

This is usually due to an AjaxSetting from RadAjaxManager/RadAjaxManagerProxy that updates an ASP:Panel or an ASP:UpdatePannel that encompasses the RadToolTipManager.In both these cases the resulting update panels have UpdateMode set to Always, so they dispose each time response from the server is received. If they include theRadToolTipManager they will also dispose it, so the tooltip will hide.

Here is what happens in such a scenario:

1. a tooltip is shown, so a partial postback is initiated, and the loading sign appears in the tooltip while it waits for the response

1. the response is received in the browser and MS AJAX starts disposing all included updatePanels

1. the RadToolTipManager, being inside one such UpdatePanel, is also disposed, so its child tooltips are also disposed, and therefore, hidden.

To avoid this behavior you must ensure the tooltip manager is not updated when this is not needed:

1. Make sure that the RadToolTipManager is not inside an updatePanel with UpdateMode=Always

1. look for AJAX settings that include ASP Panel controls. Such settings result in update panels with UpdateMode=Always because it cannot be determined if the	postback originates from inside. If possible, make such settings more specific so that they include separate controls instead of entire panels

Note that the update panels that cause the problemmay be on the master page in a master-content page scenario, or on the aspx page if the tooltip manager is in a user control.A way to determine which is the parent element that gets disposed is by monitoring the server response in the dev toolbar of the browser.

## Invalid Postback or Callback Argument

If you get such an error when the AJAX response of the RadToolTipManager arrives, the most likely reason is that the page did not initialize properly.There are various reasons that can lead to such a problem (like incorrectly loaded ViewState or change in the control tree). Here are some stepsand precautions that can help avoid it:

* Make sure the controls loaded in the Tooltip Manager have IDs set.

* Make sure the PreRender event is used to set data in the user controls that are loaded.

* Reduce the size of the UpdatePanels on the page to dispose less content with each postback. Using UpdateMode=Always is often helpful as well.

* If viable for the concrete case, disable ViewState for the control(s) loaded in the tooltip manager.

* Avoid loading different user controls in the same manager. This may lead to differences in the control tree ASP may not be able to compensate.

* Avoid changing the Visible property of panels/controls in the tooltip, especially if they have inputs or postback controls in them.

* If the above ideas do not yield a resolution, try adding this script in the OnClientHide event of the TooltipManager:`$find("YourTooltipManagerClientID").get_updatePanel().innerHTML = "";`.This will clear the tooltip contents so they will not be posted to the server with the next POST.

* If all else fails, you can disable event validation for the page (and/or user control or even for the entire application). This is doneby setting the `validateRequest` and `enableEventValidation`attributes of the Page directive to `false`.

## Click Events are not Fired for a Tooltipified Element

The __RadToolTip__ registers event handlers for the client-side events and therefore they cancel the further clickpropagation so that the tooltip remains visible, as a postback would hide it. This means that when the __ShowEvent__is set to __OnClick__ elements such as Buttons, CheckBoxes, RadioButtons, LinkButtons may not fire their server eventsor even their client-side behavior may change (espeacially for the RadioButton and CheckBox - they will not change their states,as the click is cancelled). To avoid this set the __ShowEvent__ to __OnFocus__ or to__OnMouseOver__, for example. The same holds true for the __RadToolTipManager__ as well.

## Tooltips for Small Elements

When the target is very small (for example a 16x16px button in a grid column) and the __RelativeTo__ property is set to__Mouse__ the targeted element may be covered by the tooltip, which in turn may trigger the tooltip's hide event(especially if __HideEvent__ is left to __Default__ or __LeaveTarget__).This is partly expected behavior and partly due to the fact that the callout is an entire element that is attached to the appropriate side of thetooltip, and thus consumes the mouseover event, regardless of the fact that only the callout itself is visible, as the rest is transparent.To avoid this set the __RelativeTo__ property to __Element__ and/or the __HideEvent__to __LeaveTargetAndToolTip__ or __ManualClose__.

## Changing Borders and Fonts

Properties like Font, Font-Color, Border-Style, Border-Color, etc. are only inherited from System.Web.Control and are not implemented in the__RadToolTip__. This is due to the fact that they are rather simple properties and the effect they should have on acomplex structure such as the __RadToolTip__ is not clear. Therefore the __RadToolTip__ comeswith a number of predefined skins which have borders, appropriate for the overall look and feel of the skin so that they can match the restof the theme/other Telerik controls on the page. If you need to change borders you would need to[create a custom skin]({%slug tooltip/appearance-and-styling/tutorial:-creating-a-custom-skin%}). The fonts can be controlled via CSS - you can eitherchange them when you create your custom skin, or override the default CSS via your custom rules on the page. The needed classes can easily beinspected via a tool like Firebug or the IE Dev toolbar and also a list with them is available in[this help article]({%slug tooltip/appearance-and-styling/css-classes%}).

>tip When using the[Lightweight RenderMode]({%slug tooltip/mobile-support/render-modes%})styling is easier. Examining the	rendered HTML in the browser dev toolbar can show you which CSS rules to override without the creation of a custom skin.
>

