controls/spreadprocessing/working-with-worksheets/add-remove-worksheets.md, before:

---
title: Add and Remove Worksheets
page_title: Add and Remove Worksheets
description: Add and Remove Worksheets
slug: radspreadprocessing-working-with-worksheets-add-remove-worksheets
tags: add,and,remove,worksheets
published: True
position: 1
---

# Add and Remove Worksheets



This article demonstrates how to add and remove worksheets from a workbook.
      

* [Add Worksheets](#add-worksheets)

* [Remove Worksheets](#remove-worksheets)

## Add Worksheets

Adding a new worksheet to a workbook can be easily achieved through its __Worksheets__ collection. The collection exposes an __Add()__ method that does not take arguments and returns the instance of the newly created worksheet. By default worksheets are assigned the first available name in the sequence Sheet1, Sheet2, Sheet3… You can easily change the name of the worksheet through the __Worksheet.Name__ property. More information about renaming a worksheet is available in the [Rename a Worksheet]({%slug radspreadprocessing-working-with-worksheets-rename-worksheet%}) article.
        

__Example 1__ creates a workbook from scratch and adds a single worksheet to it. Since this is the first worksheet in the workbook, it is also set as the active worksheet. All worksheets added after it will not become active.
        

#### __Copy[C#] Example 1: Create a workbook and add a worksheet to it__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-worksheets-add-remove-worksheets_0}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet newWorksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
{{endregion}}



## Remove Worksheets

The __Worksheets__ collection of the workbook offers two methods for removing worksheets: __Remove()__ and __RemoveAt()__. The former method requires the worksheet name or the worksheet instance to be passed as an argument. The latter allows you specify the index of the worksheet you would like to remove.
        

__Example 2__ creates a workbook and adds four worksheets. All worksheets are with their default names: Sheet1, Sheet2, Sheet3 and Sheet4. The code further demonstrates how to remove three worksheets using all of the aforementioned remove methods:
        

#### __[C#] Example 2: Add and remove worksheets__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-worksheets-add-remove-worksheets_1}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    workbook.Worksheets.Add(); // Sheet1
    Worksheet secondWorksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add(); // Sheet2
    workbook.Worksheets.Add(); // Sheet3
    workbook.Worksheets.Add(); // Sheet4

    workbook.Worksheets.RemoveAt(3); // Removed Sheet4
    workbook.Worksheets.Remove("Sheet1"); // Removed Sheet1
    workbook.Worksheets.Remove(secondWorksheet); // Removed Sheet2
    // the only worksheet left is Sheet3
{{endregion}}

Commit message:

XAML-related documentation with updated page_title attributes.

controls/spreadprocessing/working-with-worksheets/add-remove-worksheets.md, after:

---
title: Add and Remove Worksheets
page_title: Add and Remove Worksheets | RadSpreadProcessing for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Add and Remove Worksheets
slug: radspreadprocessing-working-with-worksheets-add-remove-worksheets
tags: add,and,remove,worksheets
published: True
position: 1
---

# Add and Remove Worksheets



This article demonstrates how to add and remove worksheets from a workbook.
      

* [Add Worksheets](#add-worksheets)

* [Remove Worksheets](#remove-worksheets)

## Add Worksheets

Adding a new worksheet to a workbook can be easily achieved through its __Worksheets__ collection. The collection exposes an __Add()__ method that does not take arguments and returns the instance of the newly created worksheet. By default worksheets are assigned the first available name in the sequence Sheet1, Sheet2, Sheet3… You can easily change the name of the worksheet through the __Worksheet.Name__ property. More information about renaming a worksheet is available in the [Rename a Worksheet]({%slug radspreadprocessing-working-with-worksheets-rename-worksheet%}) article.
        

__Example 1__ creates a workbook from scratch and adds a single worksheet to it. Since this is the first worksheet in the workbook, it is also set as the active worksheet. All worksheets added after it will not become active.
        

#### __Copy[C#] Example 1: Create a workbook and add a worksheet to it__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-worksheets-add-remove-worksheets_0}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet newWorksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
{{endregion}}



## Remove Worksheets

The __Worksheets__ collection of the workbook offers two methods for removing worksheets: __Remove()__ and __RemoveAt()__. The former method requires the worksheet name or the worksheet instance to be passed as an argument. The latter allows you specify the index of the worksheet you would like to remove.
        

__Example 2__ creates a workbook and adds four worksheets. All worksheets are with their default names: Sheet1, Sheet2, Sheet3 and Sheet4. The code further demonstrates how to remove three worksheets using all of the aforementioned remove methods:
        

#### __[C#] Example 2: Add and remove worksheets__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-worksheets-add-remove-worksheets_1}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    workbook.Worksheets.Add(); // Sheet1
    Worksheet secondWorksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add(); // Sheet2
    workbook.Worksheets.Add(); // Sheet3
    workbook.Worksheets.Add(); // Sheet4

    workbook.Worksheets.RemoveAt(3); // Removed Sheet4
    workbook.Worksheets.Remove("Sheet1"); // Removed Sheet1
    workbook.Worksheets.Remove(secondWorksheet); // Removed Sheet2
    // the only worksheet left is Sheet3
{{endregion}}
