controls/grid/appearance-and-styling/different-styles-in-each-hierarchy-level.md, before:

---
title: Different Styles in Each Hierarchy Level
page_title: Different Styles in Each Hierarchy Level | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Different Styles in Each Hierarchy Level
slug: grid/appearance-and-styling/different-styles-in-each-hierarchy-level
tags: different,styles,in,each,hierarchy,level
published: True
position: 13
---

# Different Styles in Each Hierarchy Level



## 

Sometimes you may search the option to have different appearance settings for the table in hierarchical grid when one of the predefined [ skins ]({%slug grid/appearance-and-styling/skins%}) is applied. Since the skin definitions will override any additional css classes for the nested tables, you will need to put an *!important* keyword to the corresponding inner tables styles in order to take precedence over the grid table rendering. Thus the corresponding appearance setting will dominate over the style specified in the **Styles.css** file of the chosen skin.

Below is a sample approach:

````ASP.NET
<html ASP.NETns="https://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head runat="server">
  <title>Styled hierarchical grid</title>
  <style type="text/css">
    .InnerHeaderStyle
    {
      background: navy !important;
      font-size: 13px !important;
      color: white !important; /*add more style definitions here*/
    }
    .InnerItemStyle
    {
      background: orange !important;
      color: brown !important; /*add more style definitions here*/
    }
    .InnerAlernatingItemStyle
    {
      background: white !important;
      color: brown !important; /*add more style definitions here*/
    }
    .MostInnerHeaderStyle
    {
      background: brown !important;
      font-size: 15px !important;
      color: white !important; /*add more style definitions here*/
    }
    .MostInnerItemStyle
    {
      background: white !important;
      color: olive !important; /*add more style definitions here*/
    }
    .MostInnerAlernatingItemStyle
    {
      background: olive !important;
      color: white !important; /*add more style definitions here*/
    }
  </style>
</head>
<body style="margin: 0px;">
  <form id="form1" runat="server">
  <div>
    <telerik:RadGrid RenderMode="Lightweight" ID="RadGrid1" DataSourceID="SqlDataSource1" runat="server" Skin="WebBlue"
      Width="95%" AutoGenerateColumns="False" PageSize="3" AllowSorting="True" AllowPaging="True"
      GridLines="None">
      <PagerStyle Mode="NumericPages"></PagerStyle>
      <MasterTableView DataSourceID="SqlDataSource1" DataKeyNames="CustomerID" AllowMultiColumnSorting="True"
        Width="100%">
        <DetailTables>
          <telerik:GridTableView DataKeyNames="OrderID" DataSourceID="SqlDataSource2" Width="100%"
            runat="server">
            <ParentTableRelation>
              <telerik:GridRelationFields DetailKeyField="CustomerID" MasterKeyField="CustomerID" />
            </ParentTableRelation>
            <HeaderStyle CssClass="InnerHeaderStyle" />
            <ItemStyle CssClass="InnerItemStyle" />
            <AlternatingItemStyle CssClass="InnerAlernatingItemStyle" />
            <DetailTables>
              <telerik:GridTableView DataKeyNames="OrderID" DataSourceID="SqlDataSource3" Width="100%"
                runat="server">
                <ParentTableRelation>
                  <telerik:GridRelationFields DetailKeyField="OrderID" MasterKeyField="OrderID" />
                </ParentTableRelation>
                <HeaderStyle CssClass="MostInnerHeaderStyle" />
                <ItemStyle CssClass="MostInnerItemStyle" />
                <AlternatingItemStyle CssClass="MostInnerAlernatingItemStyle" />
                <Columns>
                  <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="UnitPrice" HeaderText="Unit Price" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
                    DataField="UnitPrice" UniqueName="UnitPrice">
                  </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
                  <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="Quantity" HeaderText="Quantity" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
                    DataField="Quantity" UniqueName="Quantity">
                  </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
                  <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="Discount" HeaderText="Discount" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
                    DataField="Discount" UniqueName="Discount">
                  </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
                </Columns>
              </telerik:GridTableView>
            </DetailTables>
            <Columns>
              <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="OrderID" HeaderText="OrderID" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
                DataField="OrderID" UniqueName="OrderID">
              </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
              <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="OrderDate" HeaderText="Date Ordered" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
                DataField="OrderDate" UniqueName="OrderDate">
              </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
              <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="EmployeeID" HeaderText="EmployeeID" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
                DataField="EmployeeID" UniqueName="EmployeeID">
              </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
            </Columns>
          </telerik:GridTableView>
        </DetailTables>
        <Columns>
          <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="CustomerID" HeaderText="CustomerID" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
            DataField="CustomerID" UniqueName="CustomerID">
          </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
          <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="ContactName" HeaderText="Contact Name" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
            DataField="ContactName" UniqueName="ContactName">
          </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
          <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="CompanyName" HeaderText="Company" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
            DataField="CompanyName" UniqueName="CompanyName">
          </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
        </Columns>
      </MasterTableView>
    </telerik:RadGrid>
    <asp:SqlDataSource ID="SqlDataSource1" ConnectionString="<%$ ConnectionStrings:NorthwindConnectionString %>"
          ProviderName="System.Data.SqlClient" SelectCommand="SELECT * FROM Customers"
          runat="server"></asp:SqlDataSource>
      <asp:SqlDataSource ID="SqlDataSource2" ConnectionString="<%$ ConnectionStrings:NorthwindConnectionString %>"
          ProviderName="System.Data.SqlClient" SelectCommand="SELECT * FROM Orders Where CustomerID = @CustomerID"
          runat="server">
          <SelectParameters>
              <asp:Parameter Name="CustomerID" SessionField="CustomerID" Type="string" />
          </SelectParameters>
      </asp:SqlDataSource>
      <asp:SqlDataSource ID="SqlDataSource3" ConnectionString="<%$ ConnectionStrings:NorthwindConnectionString %>"
          ProviderName="System.Data.SqlClient" SelectCommand="SELECT * FROM [Order Details] where OrderID = @OrderID"
          runat="server">
          <SelectParameters>
              <asp:Parameter Name="OrderID" SessionField="OrderID" Type="Int32" />
          </SelectParameters>
      </asp:SqlDataSource>
  </div>
  </form>
</body>
</html>
````

Commit message:

docs(grid): improved the article

controls/grid/appearance-and-styling/different-styles-in-each-hierarchy-level.md, after:

---
title: Different Styles in Each Hierarchy Level
page_title: Different Styles in Each Hierarchy Level | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Different Styles in Each Hierarchy Level
slug: grid/appearance-and-styling/different-styles-in-each-hierarchy-level
tags: different,styles,in,each,hierarchy,level
published: True
position: 13
---

# Different Styles in Each Hierarchy Level



## 

Sometimes you may search the option to have different appearance settings for the table in hierarchical grid when one of the predefined [ skins ]({%slug grid/appearance-and-styling/skins%}) is applied. Since the skin definitions will override any additional css classes for the nested tables, you will need to put an *!important* keyword to the corresponding inner tables styles in order to take precedence over the grid table rendering. Thus the corresponding appearance setting will dominate over the style specified in the **Styles.css** file of the chosen skin.

Below is a sample approach that works for both RenderMode Classic and Lightweight:

````ASP.NET
<html ASP.NETns="https://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head runat="server">
  <title>Styled hierarchical grid</title>
  <style type="text/css">
    .InnerHeaderStyle
    {
      background: navy !important;
      font-size: 13px !important;
      color: white !important; /*add more style definitions here*/
    }
    .InnerItemStyle
    {
      background: orange !important;
      color: brown !important; /*add more style definitions here*/
    }
    .InnerAlernatingItemStyle
    {
      background: white !important;
      color: brown !important; /*add more style definitions here*/
    }
    .MostInnerHeaderStyle
    {
      background: brown !important;
      font-size: 15px !important;
      color: white !important; /*add more style definitions here*/
    }
    .MostInnerItemStyle
    {
      background: white !important;
      color: olive !important; /*add more style definitions here*/
    }
    .MostInnerAlernatingItemStyle
    {
      background: olive !important;
      color: white !important; /*add more style definitions here*/
    }
  </style>
</head>
<body style="margin: 0px;">
  <form id="form1" runat="server">
  <div>
    <telerik:RadGrid RenderMode="Lightweight" ID="RadGrid1" DataSourceID="SqlDataSource1" runat="server" Skin="WebBlue"
      Width="95%" AutoGenerateColumns="False" PageSize="3" AllowSorting="True" AllowPaging="True"
      GridLines="None">
      <PagerStyle Mode="NumericPages"></PagerStyle>
      <MasterTableView DataSourceID="SqlDataSource1" DataKeyNames="CustomerID" AllowMultiColumnSorting="True"
        Width="100%">
        <DetailTables>
          <telerik:GridTableView DataKeyNames="OrderID" DataSourceID="SqlDataSource2" Width="100%"
            runat="server">
            <ParentTableRelation>
              <telerik:GridRelationFields DetailKeyField="CustomerID" MasterKeyField="CustomerID" />
            </ParentTableRelation>
            <HeaderStyle CssClass="InnerHeaderStyle" />
            <ItemStyle CssClass="InnerItemStyle" />
            <AlternatingItemStyle CssClass="InnerAlernatingItemStyle" />
            <DetailTables>
              <telerik:GridTableView DataKeyNames="OrderID" DataSourceID="SqlDataSource3" Width="100%"
                runat="server">
                <ParentTableRelation>
                  <telerik:GridRelationFields DetailKeyField="OrderID" MasterKeyField="OrderID" />
                </ParentTableRelation>
                <HeaderStyle CssClass="MostInnerHeaderStyle" />
                <ItemStyle CssClass="MostInnerItemStyle" />
                <AlternatingItemStyle CssClass="MostInnerAlernatingItemStyle" />
                <Columns>
                  <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="UnitPrice" HeaderText="Unit Price" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
                    DataField="UnitPrice" UniqueName="UnitPrice">
                  </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
                  <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="Quantity" HeaderText="Quantity" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
                    DataField="Quantity" UniqueName="Quantity">
                  </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
                  <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="Discount" HeaderText="Discount" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
                    DataField="Discount" UniqueName="Discount">
                  </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
                </Columns>
              </telerik:GridTableView>
            </DetailTables>
            <Columns>
              <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="OrderID" HeaderText="OrderID" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
                DataField="OrderID" UniqueName="OrderID">
              </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
              <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="OrderDate" HeaderText="Date Ordered" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
                DataField="OrderDate" UniqueName="OrderDate">
              </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
              <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="EmployeeID" HeaderText="EmployeeID" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
                DataField="EmployeeID" UniqueName="EmployeeID">
              </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
            </Columns>
          </telerik:GridTableView>
        </DetailTables>
        <Columns>
          <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="CustomerID" HeaderText="CustomerID" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
            DataField="CustomerID" UniqueName="CustomerID">
          </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
          <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="ContactName" HeaderText="Contact Name" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
            DataField="ContactName" UniqueName="ContactName">
          </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
          <telerik:GridBoundColumn SortExpression="CompanyName" HeaderText="Company" HeaderButtonType="TextButton"
            DataField="CompanyName" UniqueName="CompanyName">
          </telerik:GridBoundColumn>
        </Columns>
      </MasterTableView>
    </telerik:RadGrid>
    <asp:SqlDataSource ID="SqlDataSource1" ConnectionString="<%$ ConnectionStrings:NorthwindConnectionString %>"
          ProviderName="System.Data.SqlClient" SelectCommand="SELECT * FROM Customers"
          runat="server"></asp:SqlDataSource>
      <asp:SqlDataSource ID="SqlDataSource2" ConnectionString="<%$ ConnectionStrings:NorthwindConnectionString %>"
          ProviderName="System.Data.SqlClient" SelectCommand="SELECT * FROM Orders Where CustomerID = @CustomerID"
          runat="server">
          <SelectParameters>
              <asp:Parameter Name="CustomerID" SessionField="CustomerID" Type="string" />
          </SelectParameters>
      </asp:SqlDataSource>
      <asp:SqlDataSource ID="SqlDataSource3" ConnectionString="<%$ ConnectionStrings:NorthwindConnectionString %>"
          ProviderName="System.Data.SqlClient" SelectCommand="SELECT * FROM [Order Details] where OrderID = @OrderID"
          runat="server">
          <SelectParameters>
              <asp:Parameter Name="OrderID" SessionField="OrderID" Type="Int32" />
          </SelectParameters>
      </asp:SqlDataSource>
  </div>
  </form>
</body>
</html>
````

For fine tunning you can examine the RadGrid CSS in the Chrome DevTools and experiment with the styles as explained in the following blog post [Improve Your Debugging Skills with Chrome DevTools](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/improve-your-debugging-skills-with-chrome-devtools#see-the-applied-styles).
