controls/slider/design-time.md, before:

---
title: Design Time
page_title: Design Time | RadSlider for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Design Time
slug: slider/design-time
tags: design,time
published: True
position: 3
---

# Design Time

The Smart Tag of **RadSlider** lets you easily change the skin for your control or quickly get help. You can display the Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadSlider** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag", or clicking the small rightward-pointing arrow located in the upper right corner of the control.

![slider-smart-tag](images/slider-smart-tag.png)

## Edit Items

The visual Item Editor offered by the **RadSlider** allows you to quickly declare and setup the items in the **RadSlider** without code, as well as to set values for each item's properties - *ID*, *Height*, *Width*, etc:

![slider-smart-tag-1](images/slider-smart-tag-1.png)

## Ajax Resources

* **Add RadAjaxManager...** adds a **RadAjaxManager** component to your Web page, and displays the **r.a.d.ajax Property Builder** where you can configure it.

* **Add RadStyleSheetManager** adds a **RadStyleSheetManager** to your Web page.

## Skin

The **Skin** drop-down displays a list of available [skins]({%slug slider/appearance-and-styling/skins%}) that you can apply to your control, along with an example of what the tool tips look like for each skin. Assign a skin by selecting from the list.

## Learning Center

* Links navigate you directly to examples, help, and code library.

* You can navigate directly to the [Telerik Support Center](http://www.telerik.com/support/home.aspx).

## See Also

 * [Skins]({%slug slider/appearance-and-styling/skins%})

Commit message:

Updated Smart tag articles for popular controls

controls/slider/design-time.md, after:

---
title: Design Time
page_title: Design Time | RadSlider for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Design Time
slug: slider/design-time
tags: design,time
published: True
position: 3
---

# Design Time

The Smart Tag of **RadSlider** lets you easily change the skin for your control or quickly get help. You can display the Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadSlider** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag", or clicking the small rightward-pointing arrow located in the upper right corner of the control.

As of Q2 2015 we have improved the smart tags of our controls by displaying the most popular control specific properties and adding links to their important online resources:

![slider-smart-tag](images/slider-smart-tag.png)

## Edit Items

The visual Item Editor offered by the **RadSlider** allows you to quickly declare and setup the items in the **RadSlider** without code, as well as to set values for each item's properties - *ID*, *Height*, *Width*, etc:

![slider-smart-tag-1](images/slider-smart-tag-1.png)

## Ajax Resources

* **Add RadAjaxManager...** adds a **RadAjaxManager** component to your Web page, and displays the **r.a.d.ajax Property Builder** where you can configure it.

* **Add RadStyleSheetManager** adds a **RadStyleSheetManager** to your Web page.

## Skin

The **Skin** drop-down displays a list of available [skins]({%slug slider/appearance-and-styling/skins%}) that you can apply to your control, along with an example of what the tool tips look like for each skin. Assign a skin by selecting from the list.

## Learning Center

* Links navigate you directly to examples, help, and code library.

* You can navigate directly to the [Telerik Support Center](http://www.telerik.com/support/home.aspx).

## See Also

 * [Skins]({%slug slider/appearance-and-styling/skins%})
