controls/datepicker/server-side-programming/raddatepicker-object.md, before:

---
title: RadDatePicker Object
page_title: RadDatePicker Server-side Object | RadDatePicker for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: RadDatePicker Server-Side Object
slug: calendar/server-side-programming/server-side-objects
tags: server-side,objects
published: True
position: 0
---

# RadDatePicker Object



The main classes for working with the **RadDatePicker** control are:

* **RadDatePicker** is the main class for the date picker control. It provides a rich list of properties, methods, and events for customizing the control, which you can see at [Telerik.Web.UI.RadDatePicker](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/RadDatePicker).

* **RadDateInput** is the class for the input area of **RadDatePicker**. It handles the formatting and parsing of date and time strings, and has a number of its own properties, methods and events, which you can find at [RadDateInput Server-side Programming Overview](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/controls/dateinput/server-side-programming/properties).

* **CalendarPopupButton** is the class for the popup button that displays the calendar on **RadDatePicker**. It is exposed by the **DatePopupButton** property. The following article [Telerik.Web.UI.CalendarPopupButton](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/CalendarPopupButton) lists the available server API for the CalendarPopupButton control.

Commit message:

docs(datepicker): link the autogenerated server API

controls/datepicker/server-side-programming/raddatepicker-object.md, after:

---
title: RadDatePicker Object
page_title: RadDatePicker Server-side Object | RadDatePicker for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: RadDatePicker Server-Side Object
slug: calendar/server-side-programming/server-side-objects
tags: server-side,objects
published: True
position: 0
---

# RadDatePicker Object

For a detailed list with the server-side properties and methods of the control, see the [Server-Side API of the RadDatePicker class](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/RadDatePicker).

The main classes for working with the **RadDatePicker** control are:

* **RadDatePicker** is the main class for the date picker control. It provides a rich list of properties, methods, and events for customizing the control, which you can see at [Telerik.Web.UI.RadDatePicker](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/RadDatePicker).

* **RadDateInput** is the class for the input area of **RadDatePicker**. It handles the formatting and parsing of date and time strings, and has a number of its own properties, methods and events, which you can find at [RadDateInput Server-side Programming Overview](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/controls/dateinput/server-side-programming/properties).

* **CalendarPopupButton** is the class for the popup button that displays the calendar on **RadDatePicker**. It is exposed by the **DatePopupButton** property. The following article [Telerik.Web.UI.CalendarPopupButton](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/CalendarPopupButton) lists the available server API for the CalendarPopupButton control.
