visual-stylebuilder/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Visual StyleBuilder Overview | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Overview
slug: introduction/visual-stylebuilder/overview
tags: overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Visual StyleBuilder Overview




The **Visual Style Builder** is a tool that can be used to create the base of custom skins for the **Classic** rendering of Telerik controls. It provides an interactive UI that helps in customizing the appearance of the skin. It can be found at [http://stylebuilder.telerik.com/](http://stylebuilder.telerik.com/).

For everyone who wants to create an customize skins for the modern **Lightweight** rendering of the components, we recommend using the [Telerik Theme Builder]({%slug theme-builder/overview%}). 

The main features of the Visual Style Builder are:

* Changing the main color of an existing skin with just a few clicks

* Modifying the skin for one control only or for a set of controls

* Fine tuning individual elements in the control, e.g. fonts, backgrounds, paddings

* Editing an already existing skin that can be uploaded as an archive

* Does not require installation, runs directly in your browser

![introduction-stylebuilder-overview](images/introduction-stylebuilder-overview.png)

Commit message:

docs(common): add links to skin registration article

visual-stylebuilder/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Visual StyleBuilder Overview | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Overview
slug: introduction/visual-stylebuilder/overview
tags: overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Visual StyleBuilder Overview

The **Visual Style Builder** is a tool that can be used to create the base of custom skins for the **Classic** rendering of Telerik controls. It provides an interactive UI that helps in customizing the appearance of the skin. It can be found at [http://stylebuilder.telerik.com/](http://stylebuilder.telerik.com/).

For everyone who wants to create an customize skins for the modern **Lightweight** rendering of the components, we recommend using the [Telerik Theme Builder]({%slug theme-builder/overview%}). 

The main features of the Visual Style Builder are:

* Changing the main color of an existing skin with just a few clicks

* Modifying the skin for one control only or for a set of controls

* Fine tuning individual elements in the control, e.g. fonts, backgrounds, paddings

* Editing an already existing skin that can be uploaded as an archive

* Does not require installation, runs directly in your browser

>tip After you create the custom skin you will need to [register]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/controlling-visual-appearance/skin-registration%}) it on the page where it will be used.

![introduction-stylebuilder-overview](images/introduction-stylebuilder-overview.png)
