controls/gantt/views/year-view.md, before:

---
title: Year View
page_title: Year View | RadGantt for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Year View
slug: gantt/views/year-view
tags: year,view
published: True
position: 4
---

# Year View


The **Year View** shows all loaded tasks for a RadGantt, distributed in columns that have duration of one month. Those columns are further grouped in years.

![RadGantt in Year View](images/gantt-views-yearview.png)

## Year View Settings:

**Table 1** demonstrates the properties, that are available within the **YearViewSettings** object.

| Name | Type | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
| **MonthHeaderDateFormat** |string|Gets or sets the month header date format string in **YearView**.|
| **SlotWidth** |Unit|Gets or sets the slot width in pixels for the respective view.|
| **Type** |Telerik.Web.UI.GanttViewType enumeration|Gets the type of the **View**, which the settings are applied to - Day, Week, Month or Year.|
| **UserSelectable** |bool|Gets or sets a value indicating whether to render a tab for the current view in the view chooser.|
| **YearHeaderDateFormat** |string|Gets or sets the year header date format string in **YearView**.|


# See Also

 * [Views Overview]({%slug gantt/views/overview%})
 
 * [Day View]({%slug gantt/views/day-view%})

 * [Week View]({%slug gantt/views/week-view%})

 * [Month View]({%slug gantt/views/month-view%})
 
 * [View types demo](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/gantt/examples/functionality/view-types/defaultcs.aspx)

Commit message:

Add Range and SelectedDate properties to View articles

controls/gantt/views/year-view.md, after:

---
title: Year View
page_title: Year View | RadGantt for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Year View
slug: gantt/views/year-view
tags: year,view
published: True
position: 4
---

# Year View


The **Year View** shows all loaded tasks for a RadGantt, distributed in columns that have duration of one month. Those columns are further grouped in years.

![RadGantt in Year View](images/gantt-views-yearview.png)

## Year View Settings:

**Table 1** demonstrates the properties, that are available within the **YearViewSettings** object.

| Name | Type | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
| **MonthHeaderDateFormat** |string|Gets or sets the month header date format string in **YearView**.|
| **RangeEnd** |DateTime?|Gets or sets the end time of the visible range on the **YearView**. The **RangeEnd** date will not be included within the visible range.|
| **RangeStart** |DateTime?|Gets or sets the start time of the visible range on the **YearView**.|
| **SelectedDate** |DateTime?|Gets or sets the date to which the timeline of the **YearView** is scrolled.|
| **SlotWidth** |Unit|Gets or sets the slot width in pixels for the **YearView**.|
| **Type** |Telerik.Web.UI.GanttViewType enumeration|Gets the type of the **View**. In this case an **YearView**.|
| **UserSelectable** |bool|Gets or sets a value indicating whether to render a tab for the **YearView** in the view chooser.|
| **YearHeaderDateFormat** |string|Gets or sets the year header date format string in **YearView**.|


# See Also

 * [Views Overview]({%slug gantt/views/overview%})
 
 * [Day View]({%slug gantt/views/day-view%})

 * [Week View]({%slug gantt/views/week-view%})

 * [Month View]({%slug gantt/views/month-view%})
 
 * [View types demo](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/gantt/examples/functionality/view-types/defaultcs.aspx)
