controls/colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/skins.md, before:

---
title: Skins
page_title: Skins | RadColorPicker for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Skins
slug: colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/skins
tags: skins
published: True
position: 0
---

# Skins



To make customizing the appearance of **RadColorPicker** as easy as possible, this control uses **skins**. A skin is a set of images and a CSS stylesheet that are applied to the HTML elements which make up the control, defining the look and feel.

To apply a skin, set the **Skin** property of the **RadColorPicker** control. You can set the **Skin** property using the properties pane or the control's [Smart Tag]({%slug colorpicker/design-time%}).

**RadColorPicker** is installed with a number of predefined skins:


![radcolorpicker-skins](images/colorpicker-skins.png)


## Customizing Skins

You can tweak the existing skins, or create your own. Each skin has two main elements: images and a stylesheet. When creating your own, it is a good idea to start with the stylesheet for an existing skin and alter that. See the [Tutorial: Creating a Custom Skin]({%slug colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/creating-a-custom-skin%}) topic for a step-by-step walk through. To use your own skin

1. Add the new CSS file to your project.

1. Drag and drop the CSS file from the Project Explorer onto your Web page.

1. Set the **EnableEmbeddedSkins** property of the controls that use the skin to **False**.

The stylesheet for a **RadColorPicker** skin has the name **ColorPicker.[SkinName].css** and can be found in the **...Skins/[SkinName]** directory. The images are found in the **...Skins/[SkinName]/ColorPicker** directory. For example, the stylesheet for the "Black" skin is called ColorPicker.Black.css and is located in the ...Skins/Black directory.The images are found in the ...Skins/Black/ColorPicker directory. The images are referenced by name from within the stylesheet.

For information on the CSS File structure, see the [Understanding the Skin CSS File]({%slug colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/understanding-the-skin-css-file%}) topic.

# See Also

 * [Controlling Appearance]({%slug colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/controlling-appearance%})

 * [Creating a Custom Skin]({%slug colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/creating-a-custom-skin%})

 * [Understanding the Skin CSS File]({%slug colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/understanding-the-skin-css-file%})

Commit message:

add not that Material skin is available in LWR mode only

controls/colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/skins.md, after:

---
title: Skins
page_title: Skins | RadColorPicker for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Skins
slug: colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/skins
tags: skins
published: True
position: 0
---

# Skins



To make customizing the appearance of **RadColorPicker** as easy as possible, this control uses **skins**. A skin is a set of images and a CSS stylesheet that are applied to the HTML elements which make up the control, defining the look and feel.

To apply a skin, set the **Skin** property of the **RadColorPicker** control. You can set the **Skin** property using the properties pane or the control's [Smart Tag]({%slug colorpicker/design-time%}).

**RadColorPicker** is installed with a number of predefined skins:


![radcolorpicker-skins](images/colorpicker-skins.png) 


 @[template - Material skin is available only in Lightweight mode](/_templates/common/skins-notes.md#material-only-in-lightweight) 




## Customizing Skins

You can tweak the existing skins, or create your own. Each skin has two main elements: images and a stylesheet. When creating your own, it is a good idea to start with the stylesheet for an existing skin and alter that. See the [Tutorial: Creating a Custom Skin]({%slug colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/creating-a-custom-skin%}) topic for a step-by-step walk through. To use your own skin

1. Add the new CSS file to your project.

1. Drag and drop the CSS file from the Project Explorer onto your Web page.

1. Set the **EnableEmbeddedSkins** property of the controls that use the skin to **False**.

The stylesheet for a **RadColorPicker** skin has the name **ColorPicker.[SkinName].css** and can be found in the **...Skins/[SkinName]** directory. The images are found in the **...Skins/[SkinName]/ColorPicker** directory. For example, the stylesheet for the "Black" skin is called ColorPicker.Black.css and is located in the ...Skins/Black directory.The images are found in the ...Skins/Black/ColorPicker directory. The images are referenced by name from within the stylesheet.

For information on the CSS File structure, see the [Understanding the Skin CSS File]({%slug colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/understanding-the-skin-css-file%}) topic.

# See Also

 * [Controlling Appearance]({%slug colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/controlling-appearance%})

 * [Creating a Custom Skin]({%slug colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/creating-a-custom-skin%})

 * [Understanding the Skin CSS File]({%slug colorpicker/appearance-and-styling/understanding-the-skin-css-file%})
