controls/editor/mobile-support/render-modes.md, before:

---
title: Render Modes
page_title: Render Modes | RadEditor for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Render Modes
slug: editor/mobile-support/render-modes
tags: render,modes
published: True
position: 1
---

# Render Modes

@[template](/_templates/common/render-mode.md#intro-all "control: RadEditor, version: Q3 2014")

* @[template](/_templates/common/render-mode.md#classic-desc) In this mode tables and background images (in several sprites) are used to create the layout (including rounded corners and shadows).

* @[template](/_templates/common/render-mode.md#lightweight-desc)

* **Mobile**—as of **Q2 2015**, a [phone-optimized layout]({%slug  editor/mobile-support/phone-layout/overview%}) is available. It targets small screens, uses font-icons and the *flex*-model for positioning and sizing.

* **Auto**—this mode makes each control choose the appropriate rendering mode according to the used	browser—**Classic**, **Lightweight** or **Mobile**. This functionality was added in **Q3 2013**.

>important **RadEditor** and its child controls (**RadWindow** and **RadToolBar**), as well as the other controls included in the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX suite that utilize render modes, support only one type of render mode per page. This includes mode being set for a standalone **RadEditor**, **RadToolBar**, **RadWindow** and **RadWindowManager**. All such controls must have the same **RenderMode** on a given page. This also includes instances from user controls and master pages.

## Setting Render Mode

There are two ways to configure the rendering mode of the controls:

* The **RenderMode property** in the markup or in the code-behind that can be used for a particular instance:

	**ASP.NET**

		<telerik:RadEditor ID="RadEditor1" runat="server" RenderMode="Lightweight">
		</telerik:RadEditor>

	**C#**

		RadEditor1.RenderMode = Telerik.Web.UI.RenderMode.Lightweight;

	**VB**

		RadEditor1.RenderMode = Telerik.Web.UI.RenderMode.Lightweight	


* A **global setting in the web.config** file that will affect the entire application, unless a concrete value is specified for a given control instance:

	**XML**

		<appSettings>
			<add key="Telerik.Web.UI.Editor.RenderMode" value="lightweight" />
		</appSettings>

Commit message:

added context menu to RadEditor controls list

controls/editor/mobile-support/render-modes.md, after:

---
title: Render Modes
page_title: Render Modes | RadEditor for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Render Modes
slug: editor/mobile-support/render-modes
tags: render,modes
published: True
position: 1
---

# Render Modes

@[template](/_templates/common/render-mode.md#intro-all "control: RadEditor, version: Q3 2014")

* @[template](/_templates/common/render-mode.md#classic-desc) In this mode tables and background images (in several sprites) are used to create the layout (including rounded corners and shadows).

* @[template](/_templates/common/render-mode.md#lightweight-desc)

* **Mobile**—as of **Q2 2015**, a [phone-optimized layout]({%slug  editor/mobile-support/phone-layout/overview%}) is available. It targets small screens, uses font-icons and the *flex*-model for positioning and sizing.

* **Auto**—this mode makes each control choose the appropriate rendering mode according to the used	browser—**Classic**, **Lightweight** or **Mobile**. This functionality was added in **Q3 2013**.

>important **RadEditor** and its child controls (**RadWindow** and **RadToolBar**, and **RadContextMenu** when `RenderMode` is `Lightweight`), as well as the other controls included in the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX suite that utilize render modes, support only one type of render mode per page. This includes mode being set for a standalone **RadEditor**, **RadToolBar**, **RadWindow** and **RadWindowManager**, **RadMenu** and **RadContextMenu**. All such controls must have the same **RenderMode** on a given page. This also includes instances from user controls and master pages.

## Setting Render Mode

There are two ways to configure the rendering mode of the controls:

* The **RenderMode property** in the markup or in the code-behind that can be used for a particular instance:

	**ASP.NET**

		<telerik:RadEditor ID="RadEditor1" runat="server" RenderMode="Lightweight">
		</telerik:RadEditor>

	**C#**

		RadEditor1.RenderMode = Telerik.Web.UI.RenderMode.Lightweight;

	**VB**

		RadEditor1.RenderMode = Telerik.Web.UI.RenderMode.Lightweight	


* A **global setting in the web.config** file that will affect the entire application, unless a concrete value is specified for a given control instance:

	**XML**

		<appSettings>
			<add key="Telerik.Web.UI.Editor.RenderMode" value="lightweight" />
		</appSettings>
