controls/captcha/design-time.md, before:

---
title: Design Time
page_title: Design Time | RadCaptcha for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Design Time
slug: captcha/design-time
tags: design,time
published: True
position: 3
---

# Design Time



The Smart Tag of **RadCaptcha** lets you easily enable the httpHandler for your control or quickly get help. You can display the Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadCaptcha** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag", or clicking the small rightward-pointing arrow located in the upper right corner of the control.
>caption 

![captcha-smart-tag](images/captcha-smart-tag.png)

## Enable RadCaptcha Http Handler

Enables the RadCaptcha httpHandler. Click OK to close the confirmation dialog for the RadCaptcha handler.

## Ajax Resources

* **Add RadAjaxManager...** adds a **RadAjaxManager** component to your Web page, and displays the **r.a.d.ajax Property Builder** where you can configure it.

* **Replace ScriptManager with RadScriptManager** replaces the default **ScriptManager** component that is added for AJAX-enabled Web sites with **RadScriptManager**.

* Add **RadStyleSheetManager** adds a **RadStyleSheetManager** to your Web page.

## Learning Center

* Links navigate you directly to examples, help, and code library.

* You can navigate directly to the [Telerik Support Center](http://www.telerik.com/support/home.aspx).

Commit message:

Updated Smart tag articles for popular controls

controls/captcha/design-time.md, after:

---
title: Design Time
page_title: Design Time | RadCaptcha for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Design Time
slug: captcha/design-time
tags: design,time
published: True
position: 3
---

# Design Time



The Smart Tag of **RadCaptcha** lets you easily enable the httpHandler for your control or quickly get help. You can display the Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadCaptcha** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag", or clicking the small rightward-pointing arrow located in the upper right corner of the control.

As of Q2 2015 we have improved the smart tags of our controls by displaying the most popular control specific properties and adding links to their important online resources:

>caption 

![captcha-smart-tag](images/captcha-smart-tag.png)

## Enable RadCaptcha Http Handler

Enables the RadCaptcha httpHandler. Click OK to close the confirmation dialog for the RadCaptcha handler.

## Ajax Resources

* **Add RadAjaxManager...** adds a **RadAjaxManager** component to your Web page, and displays the **r.a.d.ajax Property Builder** where you can configure it.

* **Replace ScriptManager with RadScriptManager** replaces the default **ScriptManager** component that is added for AJAX-enabled Web sites with **RadScriptManager**.

* Add **RadStyleSheetManager** adds a **RadStyleSheetManager** to your Web page.

## Learning Center

* Links navigate you directly to examples, help, and code library.

* You can navigate directly to the [Telerik Support Center](http://www.telerik.com/support/home.aspx).
