controls/formdecorator/design-time.md, before:

---
title: Design Time
page_title: Design Time | RadFormDecorator for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Design Time
slug: formdecorator/design-time
tags: design,time
published: True
position: 4
---

# Design Time

The Smart Tag of **RadFormDecorator** lets you configure your control or quickly get help. You can display the	Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadFormDecorator** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag", or clicking the small rightward-pointing arrow located in the upper right corner of the control.

![formdecorator-smart-tag](images/formdecorator-smart-tag.png)

## Ajax Resources

* **Add RadAjaxManager...** adds a **RadAjaxManager** component to your Web page, and displays the **r.a.d.ajax Property Builder** where you can configure it.

* **Add RadStyleSheetManager** adds a **RadStyleSheetManager** component to your Web page.

## Skin

The **Skin** drop-down displays a list of available [skins]({%slug formdecorator/overview%}) that you can apply to your control, along with an example of what the **RadFormDecorator** control looks like for each skin. Assign a skin by selecting the one you want from the list.

## Learning Center

* Links navigate you directly to examples, help, and code library.

* You can navigate directly to the [Telerik Support Center](http://www.telerik.com/support/home.aspx).

Commit message:

Updated Smart tag articles for popular controls

controls/formdecorator/design-time.md, after:

---
title: Design Time
page_title: Design Time | RadFormDecorator for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Design Time
slug: formdecorator/design-time
tags: design,time
published: True
position: 4
---

# Design Time

The Smart Tag of **RadFormDecorator** lets you configure your control or quickly get help. You can display the	Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadFormDecorator** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag", or clicking the small rightward-pointing arrow located in the upper right corner of the control.

As of Q2 2015 we have improved the smart tags of our controls by displaying the most popular control specific properties and adding links to their important online resources:

![formdecorator-smart-tag](images/formdecorator-smart-tag.png)

## Ajax Resources

* **Add RadAjaxManager...** adds a **RadAjaxManager** component to your Web page, and displays the **r.a.d.ajax Property Builder** where you can configure it.

* **Add RadStyleSheetManager** adds a **RadStyleSheetManager** component to your Web page.

## Skin

The **Skin** drop-down displays a list of available [skins]({%slug formdecorator/overview%}) that you can apply to your control, along with an example of what the **RadFormDecorator** control looks like for each skin. Assign a skin by selecting the one you want from the list.

## Learning Center

* Links navigate you directly to examples, help, and code library.

* You can navigate directly to the [Telerik Support Center](http://www.telerik.com/support/home.aspx).
