controls/pdfprocessing/howto/comply-with-pdfa-standard.md, before:

---
title: How to Comply with PDF/A Standard
page_title: How to Comply with PDF/A Standard
description: How to Comply with PDF/A Standard
slug: radpdfprocessing-howto-comply-with-pdfa-standard
tags: pdfa,standard
published: True
position: 1
---

# How to Comply with PDF/A Standard

[PDF/A](http://en.wikipedia.org/?title=PDF/A) is an ISO-standardized version of the PDF (Portable Document Format) specialized for the digital preservation of electronic documents. 

PDF/A standard is designed to use the PDF format for achieving documents. This means that the compliant documents should contain all the information necessary for displaying the document embedded in the file. This includes all content, fonts, and color information. A PDF/A document is not permitted to rely on information from external sources. Other key elements to PDF/A conformance include:

* Audio and video content is forbidden.
* JS and executable file launches are forbidden.
* All fonts must be embedded. This applies to the Standard 14 fonts as well.
* Color spaces should be specified in a device-independent manner.
* Encryption is forbidden.
* Use of standards-based metadata. 
* Transparent objects and layers are forbidden.
* LZW and JPEG2000 image compression models are forbidden.

## Compliance Levels

There are three major versions of the standard – PDF/A-1 (2005), PDF/A-2 (2011), PDF/A-3 (2013).

### PDF/A-1

PDF/A-1 standard uses the PDF Reference 1.4 and specifies two levels of compliance. 

__PDF/A-1b__

Its goal is to ensure reliable reproduction of the visual appearance of the document.

__PDF/A-1a__

Its objective is to ensure that documents content can be searched and re-purposed. This compliance level has some additional requirements:

* Document structure must be included.
* Tagged PDF.
* Unicode character maps
* Language specification.

> __RadPdfProcessing__ does not support PDF/A-1a level of compliance.

### PDF/A-2

Pdf/A-2 standard uses the PDF Reference 1.7. In addition it has the following features:

* Support for JPEG2000 image compression.
* Support for transparency effects and layers.

It defines three conformance levels.

__PDF/A-2a__

Corresponding to the PDF/A-1a

>__RadPdfProcessing__ does not support PDF/A-2a level of compliance.

__PDF/A-2b__

This level corresponds to the PDF/A-1b.

__PDF/A-2u__

Similar to PDF/A-2b level with the additional requirement that all text in the document has Unicode mapping.

### PDF/A-3

PDF/A-3 differs from PDF/A-2 in only one regard – it allows embedding of arbitrary file formats into the PDF file.


## How to Conform to PDF/A Standard

The __PdfFormatProvider__ class allows to export a __RadFixedDocument__ to PDF and specify some specific settings when doing so. More information about the available export settings can be found in the  [Settings article]({%slug radpdfprocessing-formats-and-conversion-pdf-settings%}). 

To comply with one of the versions of the standard you need to specify __ComplianceLevel__ different from __None__. The snippet in __Example 1__ shows how this can be achieved. 

#### __[C#] Example 1: Export PDF/A Compliant Document__

{{region radpdfprocessing-howto-comply-with-pdfa-standard_0}}
	PdfFormatProvider provider = new PdfFormatProvider();
	
	PdfExportSettings settings = new PdfExportSettings();
	settings.ComplianceLevel = PdfComplianceLevel.PdfA2B;
	provider.ExportSettings = settings;
	
	return provider.Export(document);
{{endregion}}

__RadPdfProcessing__ will do the rest for you. If you also specify encryption for the document, this setting will be ignored since the standard does not allow documents to be encrypted.

> PDF/A standard requires documents to contain all fonts used in them. __RadPdfProcessing__ does not support embedding of the standard 14 fonts used in PDF documents, so using them will prevent the document from complying with the standard. More information about font embedding is available in the [Fonts]({%slug radpdfprocessing-concepts-fonts%}) article.


# See Also

 * [Using PdfFormatProvider]({%slug radpdfprocessing-formats-and-conversion-pdf-pdfformatprovider%})

 * [PdfFormatProvider Settings]({%slug radpdfprocessing-formats-and-conversion-pdf-settings%})

 * [Fonts]({%slug radpdfprocessing-concepts-fonts%})

Commit message:

XAML-related documentation with updated page_title attributes.

controls/pdfprocessing/howto/comply-with-pdfa-standard.md, after:

---
title: How to Comply with PDF/A Standard
page_title: How to Comply with PDF/A Standard | RadPdfProcessing for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: How to Comply with PDF/A Standard
slug: radpdfprocessing-howto-comply-with-pdfa-standard
tags: pdfa,standard
published: True
position: 1
---

# How to Comply with PDF/A Standard

[PDF/A](http://en.wikipedia.org/?title=PDF/A) is an ISO-standardized version of the PDF (Portable Document Format) specialized for the digital preservation of electronic documents. 

PDF/A standard is designed to use the PDF format for achieving documents. This means that the compliant documents should contain all the information necessary for displaying the document embedded in the file. This includes all content, fonts, and color information. A PDF/A document is not permitted to rely on information from external sources. Other key elements to PDF/A conformance include:

* Audio and video content is forbidden.
* JS and executable file launches are forbidden.
* All fonts must be embedded. This applies to the Standard 14 fonts as well.
* Color spaces should be specified in a device-independent manner.
* Encryption is forbidden.
* Use of standards-based metadata. 
* Transparent objects and layers are forbidden.
* LZW and JPEG2000 image compression models are forbidden.

## Compliance Levels

There are three major versions of the standard – PDF/A-1 (2005), PDF/A-2 (2011), PDF/A-3 (2013).

### PDF/A-1

PDF/A-1 standard uses the PDF Reference 1.4 and specifies two levels of compliance. 

__PDF/A-1b__

Its goal is to ensure reliable reproduction of the visual appearance of the document.

__PDF/A-1a__

Its objective is to ensure that documents content can be searched and re-purposed. This compliance level has some additional requirements:

* Document structure must be included.
* Tagged PDF.
* Unicode character maps
* Language specification.

> __RadPdfProcessing__ does not support PDF/A-1a level of compliance.

### PDF/A-2

Pdf/A-2 standard uses the PDF Reference 1.7. In addition it has the following features:

* Support for JPEG2000 image compression.
* Support for transparency effects and layers.

It defines three conformance levels.

__PDF/A-2a__

Corresponding to the PDF/A-1a

>__RadPdfProcessing__ does not support PDF/A-2a level of compliance.

__PDF/A-2b__

This level corresponds to the PDF/A-1b.

__PDF/A-2u__

Similar to PDF/A-2b level with the additional requirement that all text in the document has Unicode mapping.

### PDF/A-3

PDF/A-3 differs from PDF/A-2 in only one regard – it allows embedding of arbitrary file formats into the PDF file.


## How to Conform to PDF/A Standard

The __PdfFormatProvider__ class allows to export a __RadFixedDocument__ to PDF and specify some specific settings when doing so. More information about the available export settings can be found in the  [Settings article]({%slug radpdfprocessing-formats-and-conversion-pdf-settings%}). 

To comply with one of the versions of the standard you need to specify __ComplianceLevel__ different from __None__. The snippet in __Example 1__ shows how this can be achieved. 

#### __[C#] Example 1: Export PDF/A Compliant Document__

{{region radpdfprocessing-howto-comply-with-pdfa-standard_0}}
	PdfFormatProvider provider = new PdfFormatProvider();
	
	PdfExportSettings settings = new PdfExportSettings();
	settings.ComplianceLevel = PdfComplianceLevel.PdfA2B;
	provider.ExportSettings = settings;
	
	return provider.Export(document);
{{endregion}}

__RadPdfProcessing__ will do the rest for you. If you also specify encryption for the document, this setting will be ignored since the standard does not allow documents to be encrypted.

> PDF/A standard requires documents to contain all fonts used in them. __RadPdfProcessing__ does not support embedding of the standard 14 fonts used in PDF documents, so using them will prevent the document from complying with the standard. More information about font embedding is available in the [Fonts]({%slug radpdfprocessing-concepts-fonts%}) article.


# See Also

 * [Using PdfFormatProvider]({%slug radpdfprocessing-formats-and-conversion-pdf-pdfformatprovider%})

 * [PdfFormatProvider Settings]({%slug radpdfprocessing-formats-and-conversion-pdf-settings%})

 * [Fonts]({%slug radpdfprocessing-concepts-fonts%})
