controls/grid/data-editing/grid-editors/auto-generated-editors.md, before:

---
title: Auto-Generated Editors
page_title: Auto-Generated Editors | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Auto-Generated Editors
slug: grid/data-editing/grid-editors/auto-generated-editors
tags: auto-generated,editors
published: True
position: 0
---

# Auto-Generated Editors



Editable columns inside a **RadGrid** control supply a default editor that enables users to edit the values in the column. The editor is specified by the **ColumnEditor** property of the column, which is of type **IGridColumnEditor**.

>note Editable columns are columns that implement the **IGridEditableColumn** interface.
>


## Default Column Editors

The following table lists the default column editors for each of the built-in editable column types:

>caption  

| Column type | Default column editor | Column editor base class |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
|GridBoundColumn|GridTextBoxColumnEditor|GridTextColumnEditor|
|GridDropDownColumn|GridDropDownListColumnEditor|GridDropDownColumnEditor|
|GridCheckBoxColumn|GridCheckBoxListColumnEditor|GridBoolColumnEditor|
|GridDateTimeColumn|GridDateTimeColumnEditor|GridTextColumnEditor|
|GridNumericColumn|GridNumericColumnEditor|GridTextColumnEditor|
|GridMaskedColumn|GridMaskedColumnEditor|GridTextColumnEditor|
|GridHTMLEditorColumn|GridHTMLEditorColumnEditor|GridTextColumnEditor|
|GridTemplateColumn|GridTemplateColumnEditor|GridColumnEditorBase|
|GridBinaryImageColumn|GridBinaryImageColumnEditor|GridColumnEditorBase|


>caution The purpose of column editors is to define the style of the controls in edit mode. Note that using column editors for modifying the functionality of the edit controls is not recommended.
>


## Accessing the column editors programmatically

The autogenerated column editor is available when the item is in *edit* mode.



````ASP.NET
<MasterTableView ...>
  <Columns>
    <telerik:GridNumericColumn UniqueName="MyNumericColumn" DataField="ItemNumber" ... />
  </Columns>
</MasterTableView>			
````
````C#
protected void RadGrid1_ItemCreated(object sender, GridItemEventArgs e)
{
    if (e.Item.IsInEditMode)
    {
        GridEditableItem item = e.Item as GridEditableItem;
        GridNumericColumnEditor numericEditor = (GridNumericColumnEditor)item.EditManager.GetColumnEditor("MyNumericColumn");
    }
}
````
````VB
Protected Sub RadGrid1_ItemCreated(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As GridItemEventArgs) Handles RadGrid1.ItemCreated
    If e.Item.IsInEditMode Then
        Dim item As GridEditableItem = TryCast(e.Item, GridEditableItem)
        Dim numericEditor As GridNumericColumnEditor = DirectCast(item.EditManager.GetColumnEditor("MyNumericColumn"), GridNumericColumnEditor)
    End If
End Sub
````


## Custom column editors

You can replace the default column editor with a [custom editor]({%slug grid/data-editing/grid-editors/custom-editors-extending-auto-generated-editors%}). By supplying a custom column editor, you can provide a column with enhanced functionality such as validation, rich-text editing, third-party controls, and so on.

Once created, you can easily re-use your custom column editors for other grid implementations.

Commit message:

docs(grid): changing dateTime column editors

controls/grid/data-editing/grid-editors/auto-generated-editors.md, after:

---
title: Auto-Generated Editors
page_title: Auto-Generated Editors | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Auto-Generated Editors
slug: grid/data-editing/grid-editors/auto-generated-editors
tags: auto-generated,editors
published: True
position: 0
---

# Auto-Generated Editors



Editable columns inside a **RadGrid** control supply a default editor that enables users to edit the values in the column. The editor is specified by the **ColumnEditor** property of the column, which is of type **IGridColumnEditor**.

>note Editable columns are columns that implement the **IGridEditableColumn** interface.
>


## Default Column Editors

The following table lists the default column editors for each of the built-in editable column types:

>caption  

| Column type | Default column editor | Column editor base class |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
|GridBoundColumn|GridTextBoxColumnEditor|GridTextColumnEditor|
|GridDropDownColumn|GridDropDownListColumnEditor|GridDropDownColumnEditor|
|GridCheckBoxColumn|GridCheckBoxListColumnEditor|GridBoolColumnEditor|
|GridDateTimeColumn|GridDateTimeColumnEditor|GridTextColumnEditor|
|GridNumericColumn|GridNumericColumnEditor|GridTextColumnEditor|
|GridMaskedColumn|GridMaskedColumnEditor|GridTextColumnEditor|
|GridHTMLEditorColumn|GridHTMLEditorColumnEditor|GridTextColumnEditor|
|GridTemplateColumn|GridTemplateColumnEditor|GridColumnEditorBase|
|GridBinaryImageColumn|GridBinaryImageColumnEditor|GridColumnEditorBase|


>caution The purpose of column editors is to define the style of the controls in edit mode. Note that using column editors for modifying the functionality of the edit controls is not recommended.
>

>tip If you want to change properties of a `GridDateTimeColumn` editor related to the calendar or time view, use their `SharedCalendar` or `SharedTimeView` properties.

## Accessing the column editors programmatically

The autogenerated column editor is available when the item is in *edit* mode.



````ASP.NET
<MasterTableView ...>
  <Columns>
    <telerik:GridNumericColumn UniqueName="MyNumericColumn" DataField="ItemNumber" ... />
  </Columns>
</MasterTableView>			
````
````C#
protected void RadGrid1_ItemCreated(object sender, GridItemEventArgs e)
{
    if (e.Item.IsInEditMode)
    {
        GridEditableItem item = e.Item as GridEditableItem;
        GridNumericColumnEditor numericEditor = (GridNumericColumnEditor)item.EditManager.GetColumnEditor("MyNumericColumn");
    }
}
````
````VB
Protected Sub RadGrid1_ItemCreated(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As GridItemEventArgs) Handles RadGrid1.ItemCreated
    If e.Item.IsInEditMode Then
        Dim item As GridEditableItem = TryCast(e.Item, GridEditableItem)
        Dim numericEditor As GridNumericColumnEditor = DirectCast(item.EditManager.GetColumnEditor("MyNumericColumn"), GridNumericColumnEditor)
    End If
End Sub
````


## Custom column editors

You can replace the default column editor with a [custom editor]({%slug grid/data-editing/grid-editors/custom-editors-extending-auto-generated-editors%}). By supplying a custom column editor, you can provide a column with enhanced functionality such as validation, rich-text editing, third-party controls, and so on.

Once created, you can easily re-use your custom column editors for other grid implementations.
