installation/installing-the-telerik-controls-from-nuget-package.md, before:

---
title: Installing the Telerik Controls from a NuGet Package
page_title: Installing the Telerik Controls from a NuGet Package | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Installing the Telerik Controls from a NuGet Package
slug: introduction/installation/installing-the-telerik-controls-from-a-nuget-package
tags: installing,the,telerik,controls,from,nuget,package
published: True
position: 4
---

# Installing the Telerik Controls from a NuGet Package



This article explains how to use the NuGet feed and packages provided by Telerik to get the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX controls in your project.

This feed is available as of Q3 2015 SP1 (ver. 2015.3.1111).


>caution  **Prerequisite** 
>In order to have the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX running, you will need to have [ASP.NET AJAX](http://www.asp.net/AJAX/Documentation/Live/InstallingASPNETAJAX.aspx) installed on your development/production machine.


## Telerik NuGet Feed in Visual Studio

Telerik provides a NuGet feed that you can use in Visual Studio by following these steps:

1. Open Visual Studio.

1. Go to **Tools** > **NuGet Package Manager** > **Package Manager Settings**, select **Package Manager Sources** and then click the **+** button to add a feed.

1. Add a feed with the following URL: **https://nuget.telerik.com/nuget** and click **OK**.

	>caption Figure 1: Visual Studio NuGet Package Manager and Telerik NuGet Feed

	![Visual Studio NuGet Package Manager and Telerik NuGet Feed](images/telerik-nuged-feed-in-npm.png)

1. Create or load your WebForms project.

1. Go to **Tools** > **NuGet Package Manager** > **Manage NuGet Packages for solution**.

1. Choose the **Online** / **Browse** list of packages (depending on your VS version).

1. Enter your Telerik credentials in the Windows Authentication dialog (e.g., user: *my.name@my.company.com* and password: *myPassPhraseForTelerikDotCom*).

	>tip You can enter your credentials only once by selecting the Remember my password checkbox.

	>caption Figure 2: Enter your Telerik.com credentials to access the Telerik NuGet feed

	![Enter your Telerik.com credentials](images/telerik-nuget-credentials.png)

1. Select the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX package, e.g., **Telerik.UI.for.AspNet.Ajax.Net45**) and click **Install**. The package name is built in the following format: `Telerik.UI.for.AspNet.Ajax.Net<.NET version of your project>` and you should make sure to select the desired Telerik version.

	>tip Search for "telerik.ui.for" to narrow down the list of results and find the package easily.

	>caption Figure 3: Adding the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX package to the solution

	![Adding the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX package to the solution](images/add-telerik-package.png)

## Downloading a NuGet Package

You can download a *.nupkg* file to [build a private feed](http://www.telerik.com/blogs/power-your-projects-with-telerik---now-with-the-convenience-of-nuget) for your company by following the steps below.

>important Such a feed must be private (i.e., not available to the general Internet) and the standard developer-seat [licensing model]({%slug introduction/licensing/license-agreement%}) applies (i.e., the developers working with the controls must have active licenses). If you have questions on the licensing scheme, send them to telerik-sales@progress.com.


1. Navigate to [Your Account](https://www.telerik.com/account/).

1. Go to the [Downloads page of UI for ASP.NET AJAX](https://www.telerik.com/account/product-download?product=RCAJAX).

1. Click on the *.nupkg* files you require (e.g., *Telerik.UI.for.AspNet.Ajax.Net45.2016.3.1027.nupkg*) to download them. The file name is built in the following format: `Telerik.UI.for.AspNet.Ajax.Net<.NET version of your project>.<Telerik controls version>.nupkg`.

1. Configure your server and projects to use the feed.

 
## Automated Builds

If you are using the Telerik NuGet feed on an automated build environment, you can provide your own credentials to the build PC so that it can connect to the feed and download the package.

You must protect your credentials and ensure they are used only by you and not by other developers, according to the license-per-developer policy. You an read more about this in our [EULA](http://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/aspnet-ajax).

Commit message:

docs(common): more info on nuget and build PC

installation/installing-the-telerik-controls-from-nuget-package.md, after:

---
title: Installing the Telerik Controls from a NuGet Package
page_title: Installing the Telerik Controls from a NuGet Package | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Installing the Telerik Controls from a NuGet Package
slug: introduction/installation/installing-the-telerik-controls-from-a-nuget-package
tags: installing,the,telerik,controls,from,nuget,package
published: True
position: 4
---

# Installing the Telerik Controls from a NuGet Package



This article explains how to use the NuGet feed and packages provided by Telerik to get the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX controls in your project.

This feed is available as of Q3 2015 SP1 (ver. 2015.3.1111).


>caution  **Prerequisite** 
>In order to have the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX running, you will need to have [ASP.NET AJAX](http://www.asp.net/AJAX/Documentation/Live/InstallingASPNETAJAX.aspx) installed on your development/production machine.


## Telerik NuGet Feed in Visual Studio

Telerik provides a NuGet feed that you can use in Visual Studio by following these steps:

1. Open Visual Studio.

1. Go to **Tools** > **NuGet Package Manager** > **Package Manager Settings**, select **Package Manager Sources** and then click the **+** button to add a feed.

1. Add a feed with the following URL: **https://nuget.telerik.com/nuget** and click **OK**.

	>caption Figure 1: Visual Studio NuGet Package Manager and Telerik NuGet Feed

	![Visual Studio NuGet Package Manager and Telerik NuGet Feed](images/telerik-nuged-feed-in-npm.png)

1. Create or load your WebForms project.

1. Go to **Tools** > **NuGet Package Manager** > **Manage NuGet Packages for solution**.

1. Choose the **Online** / **Browse** list of packages (depending on your VS version).

1. Enter your Telerik credentials in the Windows Authentication dialog (e.g., user: *my.name@my.company.com* and password: *myPassPhraseForTelerikDotCom*).

	>tip You can enter your credentials only once by selecting the Remember my password checkbox.

	>caption Figure 2: Enter your Telerik.com credentials to access the Telerik NuGet feed

	![Enter your Telerik.com credentials](images/telerik-nuget-credentials.png)

1. Select the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX package, e.g., **Telerik.UI.for.AspNet.Ajax.Net45**) and click **Install**. The package name is built in the following format: `Telerik.UI.for.AspNet.Ajax.Net<.NET version of your project>` and you should make sure to select the desired Telerik version.

	>tip Search for "telerik.ui.for" to narrow down the list of results and find the package easily.

	>caption Figure 3: Adding the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX package to the solution

	![Adding the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX package to the solution](images/add-telerik-package.png)

## Downloading a NuGet Package

You can download a *.nupkg* file to [build a private feed](http://www.telerik.com/blogs/power-your-projects-with-telerik---now-with-the-convenience-of-nuget) for your company by following the steps below.

>important Such a feed must be private (i.e., not available to the general Internet) and the standard developer-seat [licensing model]({%slug introduction/licensing/license-agreement%}) applies (i.e., the developers working with the controls must have active licenses). If you have questions on the licensing scheme, send them to telerik-sales@progress.com.


1. Navigate to [Your Account](https://www.telerik.com/account/).

1. Go to the [Downloads page of UI for ASP.NET AJAX](https://www.telerik.com/account/product-download?product=RCAJAX).

1. Click on the *.nupkg* files you require (e.g., *Telerik.UI.for.AspNet.Ajax.Net45.2016.3.1027.nupkg*) to download them. The file name is built in the following format: `Telerik.UI.for.AspNet.Ajax.Net<.NET version of your project>.<Telerik controls version>.nupkg`.

1. Configure your server and projects to use the feed.

 
## Automated Builds

If you are using the Telerik NuGet feed on an automated build environment, you can provide your own credentials to the build PC so that it can connect to the feed and download the package.


You can read more about adding credentials via the NuGet.config in the following page: [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/schema/nuget-config-file#packagesourcecredentials](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/schema/nuget-config-file#packagesourcecredentials).

You must protect your credentials and ensure they are used only by you and not by other developers, according to the [license-per-developer policy](http://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/aspnet-ajax). For example, take your encrypted password from your local NuGet.config file and use it on the build PC.
