---
title: Types
page_title: Types | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Types
slug: treelist/column/types
tags: types
published: True
position: 0
---

# Types



__RadTreeList__ provides various types of columns.

* __TreeListBoundColumn__

* __TreeListButtoncolumn__

* __TreeListCalculatedColumn__

* __TreeListCheckBoxColumn__

* __TreeListDateTimeColumn__

* __TreeListDragDropColumn__

* __TreeListEditCommandColumn__

* __TreeListHyperLinkColumn__

* __TreeListImageColumn__

* __TreeListNumericColumn__

* __TreeListSelectColumn__

* __TreeListTemplateColumn__

They offer the functionality needed to display and operate on different types of data.

## 

>note Note that, __RadTreeList__ does not have a separate expand column. The expand/collapse buttons of the control are always rendered in the first column displayed.
>


There are different ways to create the RadTreeList columns - to auto-generate them, to declarethem in mark-up or add them dynamically to the __Columns__ collection.

If you set the __AutoGenerateColumns__ property to __true__for the __RadTreeList__ control, it will create a column for each field in thedata source to which the control is bound. The columns can be accessed through the__AutoGeneratedColumns__ collection. You can customize the auto-generatedcolumns if you wire the __AutoGeneratedColumnCreated__ event of the __RadTreeList__ control:



````C#
	    protected void RadTreeList1_AutoGeneratedColumnCreated(object sender, TreeListAutoGeneratedColumnCreatedEventArgs e)
	    {
	        if (e.Column.HeaderText == "EmployeeID" || e.Column.HeaderText == "ReportsTo")
	        {
	            e.Column.Visible = false;
	        }
	        switch (e.Column.HeaderText)
	        {
	            case "LastName": e.Column.HeaderText = "Last Name";
	                break;
	            case "FirstName": e.Column.HeaderText = "First Name";
	                break;
	            case "BirthDate": e.Column.HeaderText = "Birth Date";
	                break;
	        }
	    } 		
````
````VB.NET
	    Protected Sub RadTreeList1_AutoGeneratedColumnCreated(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As TreeListAutoGeneratedColumnCreatedEventArgs) Handles RadTreeList1.AutoGeneratedColumnCreated
	        If e.Column.HeaderText = "EmployeeID" OrElse e.Column.HeaderText = "ReportsTo" Then
	            e.Column.Visible = False
	        End If
	        Select Case e.Column.HeaderText
	            Case "LastName"
	                e.Column.HeaderText = "Last Name"
	                Exit Select
	            Case "FirstName"
	                e.Column.HeaderText = "First Name"
	                Exit Select
	            Case "BirthDate"
	                e.Column.HeaderText = "Birth Date"
	                Exit Select
	        End Select
	    End Sub
````


If you decide to explicitly create the columns in the __PropertyBuilder__or at runtime, they should be added in the __Columns__ tag. These columns willappear in the order they are declared and before any auto-generated columns.

## Column types

## Common properties

Each data-type column exposes the following properties:

* __ConvertEmptyStringToNull__ - decides whether empty string values of the column willbe converted to null.

* __DataField__ - specifies the field in the data source used to populate the column.

* __DataType__ - the type of data which will be passed to the column.

* __DefaultInsertValue__ - specifies a default value which will be inserted in case noneis provided.

* __Display__ - gets or sets a boolean value indicating whether the column will be displayedon the client.

* __EditFormColumnIndex__ - when __EditMode__ is set to__EditForms__ and __EditFormSettings-ColumnsCount__ is set to anumber larger than 1 this property specifies in which column of the edit form the edit field for this columnwill reside.

* __EditFormHeaderTextFormat__ - enables you to customize the text that labels the columneditor.

* __HeaderStyle__ - used to apply styles to the column header.

* __HeaderText__ - specifies the text which will appear in the column header.

* __HeaderToolTip__ - specifies the tooltip of the header cell.

* __MaxWidth__ - specifies the maximum width allowed for the column.

* __MinWidth__ - specifies the minimum width allowed for the column.

* __OrderIndex__ - gets or sets the order index of the column in RadTreeList.

* __Resizable__ - gets or sets a boolean value indicating whether the column can be resized.

* __Reorderable__ - gets or sets a boolean value indicating whether the column can be reordered.

* __UniqueName__ - a property of type string which lets you easily and reliablyidentify and locate a column in the RadTreeList.

* __Visible__ - a boolean value defining whether the column will be rendered in the pageor not.

## TreeListBoundColumn

__TreeListBoundColumn__ displays the values of a field in the data source. Bindingthe column to a field is achieved by setting its __DataField__ property to the data fieldname. This column is editable and by default uses a __TreeListTextBoxColumnEditor__. Theadditional properties available for this column are:

* __DataFormatString__ - a formatting string that specifies the display format for thevalue of the field shown by the column.

* __EmptyDataText__ - specifies the text that will be displayed in the column cellwhen it has empty/null value retrieved from the data source.

* __HtmlEncode__ - specifies whether the text in the corresponding cell will be encodedautomatically or not when displayed in the browser. More on the nature of html encoding you can find at[that address](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.httpserverutility.htmlencode.aspx).

````ASPNET
	            <telerik:TreeListBoundColumn DataField="BirthDate" UniqueName="BirthDate" DataType="System.DateTime"
	                DataFormatString="{0:dd/MM/yy}" HeaderText="Birth Date">
	            </telerik:TreeListBoundColumn>
````



## TreeListButtonColumn

__TreeListButtonColumn__ displays a button giving you a choice to choose its type between__PushButton__, __LinkButton__ and __ImageButton__.You can specify a CommandName to the buttons displayed, so when clicked they will fire a specific item command inthe treelist control. For further information on commands, you can see[Command Reference]({%slug treelist/control-lifecycle/command-reference%}).

The column specific properties of the button column are:

* __ButtonCssClass__ - specifies a custom CSS class that the buttons in the column shouldpick up.

* __ButtonType__ - enables you to choose between three button types to display -ImageButton, LinkButton and PushButton.

* __CommandName__ - lets you assign a CommandName to the buttons which will be passedto the event arguments in the ItemCommand event.

* __CommandArgument__ - an argument that will be accessible in the event arguments ofthe ItemCommand event of the control.

* __ImageUrl__ - used to provide an URL to the image that will be displayed if thebutton type is ImageButton.

````ASPNET
	            <telerik:TreeListButtonColumn ButtonType="PushButton" CommandName="Select" UniqueName="SelectColumn"
	                Text="Select" HeaderText="Select">
	            </telerik:TreeListButtonColumn>
````



## TreeListCalculatedColumn

__TreeListCalculatedColumn__ displays a value that is calculated based on one or more fieldsand an expression that indicates how to calculate the display value.

The properties used in this column type are:

* __DataFields__ - used to list all the fields that are used to calculate the columnvalue.

* __Expression__ - specifies how the field values are to be combined, using parametersbased on the order of the fields listed in the DataFields property.

The following table lists the operators you can use in the expression of a calculated column:


| Operator | Meaning |
| ------ | ------ |
|+|Sums up the values in the specified columns' cells|
|-|Subtracts the values in the specified columns' cells|
|*|Multiplies the values in the specified columns' cells|
|/|Divides the values in the specified columns' cells|

## TreeListCheckBoxColumn

__TreeListCheckBoxColumn__ is bound to a boolean field in the data sourcerepresenting its values through checked or unchecked checkboxes which are read-only. When the column iseditable, the check box is enabled. TreeListCheckBoxColumn provides a__TreeListCheckBoxColumnEditor__ for editing items. If the column is bound to a non-booleanfield, the __RadTreeList__ control will throw an exception.

````ASPNET
	            <telerik:TreeListCheckBoxColumn DataField="InStock" UniqueName="InStock" HeaderText="In stock">
	            </telerik:TreeListCheckBoxColumn>
````



## TreeListDateTimeColumn

When in browser mode, __TreeListDateTimeColumn__ looks and behaves like a standardTreeListBoundColumn. When in edit mode, however, it displays a RadDatePicker, RadTimePicker, or RadDateTimePickercontrol. This column type is for date and time values. Its DataField property must identify a field with a validdata type (DateTime).

It is editable and by default provides TreeListDateTimeColumnEditor as its column editor. You can use the PickerTypeproperty to specify the type of data selection control the editor uses. The default editor control is RadDatePicker.

The properties specific to this column are:

* __HtmlEncode__ - specifies whether the text in the corresponding cell will be encodedautomatically or not when displayed in the browser. More on the nature of html encoding you can find at[that address](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.httpserverutility.htmlencode.aspx).

* __MaxDate__ - provides a max possible date that could be set as a column value inedit/insert mode.

* __MinDate__ - provides a min possible date that could be set as a column value inedit/insert mode.

* __PickerType__ - lets you choose between the different pickers that could bedisplayed in edit/insert mode.

````ASPNET
	            <telerik:TreeListDateTimeColumn DataField="HireDate" UniqueName="HireDate" HeaderText="Hire Date"
	                PickerType="DateTimePicker" MinDate="01/01/1992" MaxDate="31/12/2010" >
	            </telerik:TreeListDateTimeColumn>
````



## TreeListDragDropColumn

__TreeListDragDropColumn__ is used for utilizing items drag and drop operation in RadTreeList. It	renders a drag handle which can be used to get hold of the item and drag it around. When this column is used, an item	can be dragged only if the drag handle is clicked. Note that item selection still needs to be enabled in order for the	handle to be active.

The properties exposed by this column are:

* __DragImageToolTip__ - specifies the tooltip text shown when the drag handle is hovered.

* __DragImageUrl__ - lets you provide a url to an image that should be displayed instead of thedefault drag handle.

## TreeListEditCommandColumn

__TreeListEditCommandColumn__ allows you to fire an __InitInsert__or __Edit__ command. In browser mode it displays "Add record" and/or "Edit" buttons.You can control what is displayed using the __ShowAddButton__ and__ShowEditButton__ properties. If the __EditMode__ of the control is__InPlace__, in edit mode the column will display Update and Cancel buttons. In insert modethe buttons displayed will be Insert and Cancel.

The properties exposed by this column are:

* __AddRecord/Cancel/Edit/Insert/UpdateImageUrl__ - specifies the address of theimage that will be displayed if the ButtonType of the respective button is ImageButton.

* __AddRecord/Cancel/Edit/Insert/UpdateText__ - specifies the Text of the respectivebutton.

* __ButtonType__ - enables you to choose between three button types to display -ImageButton, LinkButton and PushButton.

* __ShowAddButton__ - a property of type bool that determines whether an AddRecordbutton will be displayed in the column.

* __ShowEditButton__ - a property of type bool that determines whether an Editbutton will be displayed in the column.

````ASPNET
	            <telerik:TreeListEditCommandColumn UniqueName="EditColumn" ButtonType="PushButton"
	                    ShowAddButton="false">
	            </telerik:TreeListEditCommandColumn>
````



## TreeListHyperLinkColumn

Each cell in a __TreeListHyperLinkColumn__ contains a predefined hyperlink. You can eithershow one link in the whole column or bind it to fields in the datasource that would provide the text for the links.

The following properties are exposed by the TreeListHyperLinkColumn

* __Text__ - a property providing the text for every link in the entire column.

* __DataTextField__ - points to a field that supplies the text for the link.

* __DataTextFormatString__ - used to format the text that comes from the database.

* __NavigateUrl__ - specifies the target of the hyperlink, one and the same for allitems

* __DataNavigateUrlFields__ - enables you to specify one or multiple fields if thetarget of the hyperlink is determined by more than one field in the database.

* __DataNavigateUrlFormatString__ - lets you combine the navigate URL fields byspecifying a format string as the value of the property.

````ASPNET
	            <telerik:TreeListHyperLinkColumn DataTextFormatString="Google '{0}'" DataNavigateUrlFields="ProductName"
	                    UniqueName="SearchProduct" DataNavigateUrlFormatString="http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&amp;q={0}&amp;btnG=Google+Search"
	                    HeaderText="HyperLink<br/>Column" DataTextField="ProductName">
	            </telerik:TreeListHyperLinkColumn>
````



## TreeListImageColumn

__TreeListImageColumn__ is used to display an image in each cell of the column. Youcan either use a static url to an image or bind the column to a field in the datasource that provides paths to the imagesthat need to be displayed.

The following properties enable you to customize this column type:

* __ImageUrl__ - specifies an URL to an image that will be displayed in all items inthis column

* __DataImageUrlFields__ - a property that points to a field in the data sourcethat can be used to supply the image path.You can specify multiple fields if the image url is determined bymore than one field in the database.

* __DataImageUrlFormatString__ - lets you format the image path.

* __DataAlternateTextField__ - specifies by which field in the treelist data sourcethe column will be sorted. Note that if you specify directly sort expression through the SortExpression propertyof the column, it will have higher priority and will override the sort criteria of the DataAlternateTextFieldproperty.

* __DataAlternateTextFormatString__ - used to apply format to the alternate text.

* __ImageAlign__ - aligns the image in the table cell.

* __ImageHeight/Width__ - used to set dimensions for the image displayed.

````ASPNET
	            <telerik:TreeListImageColumn UniqueName="ImageColumn" HeaderText="Product image"
	                DataImageUrlFields="ProductName" DataImageUrlFormatString="Images/{0}.png" ImageAlign="Middle">
	            </telerik:TreeListImageColumn>
````



## TreeListNumericColumn

__TreeListNumericColumn__ is used for numeric values. In browser mode, this column type looksand behaves like a standard TreeListBoundColumn. In edit mode, it displays a RadNumericTextBox control. Its DataFieldproperty must point to a field with a valid numeric data type (Number or Decimal).

This column type is editable and by default provides TreeListNumericColumnEditor as its column editor.

The additional properties that the column exposes are:

* __AllowRounding__ - applies to the RadNumericTextBox that is displayed in edit mode.Specifies whether the value is rounded (true) or truncated (false) when the number of decimal places exceeds thevalue of __DecimalDigits__.

* __DecimalDigits__ - applies to the RadNumericTextBox that is displayed in edit mode.Specifies the number of digits that are displayed after the decimal separator.

* HtmlEncode - specifies whether the text in the corresponding cell will be encodedautomatically or not when displayed in the browser. More on the nature of html encoding you can find at[that address](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.httpserverutility.htmlencode.aspx).

* __KeepNotRoundedValue__ - applies to the RadNumericTextBox that is displayed inedit mode. Specifies whether the control will keep its not rounded value (true) and show it when it is focused.Otherwise (false) the old behavior is preserved, where theactual value of the control is the rounded value.By default this property is set to false.

* __NumericType__ - allows you to choose between __Currency__,__Number__ and __Percent__. Applies an appropriate format string to the valuein both browser and edit mode.

````ASPNET
	            <telerik:TreeListNumericColumn  DataField="Price" UniqueName="Price" HeaderText="Price"
	                NumericType="Currency" AllowRounding="true" DecimalDigits="3">
	            </telerik:TreeListNumericColumn>
````



## TreeListSelectColumn

__TreeListSelectColumn__ displays a CheckBox control in each cell of the column. Unlikethe __TreeListCheckBox__ column it does not represent data - its purpose is to allow rowselection in the __RadTreeList__ control. In case the__AllowMultiItemSelection__ property of the control is set to __true__,a check box will also be rendered in the column header allowing all-item selection.

The __TreeListSelectColumn__ can be used for either client-side or server-sideitem selection, depending on the currently set mode for the tree list control itself. By default, it is server-side.In order to switch it to client-side you only need to set __ClientSettings.Selecting.AllowItemSelection__to __true__.

By providing a boolean value for the __ClientSettings.Selecting.UseSelectColumnOnly__ youcan determine if the select column will be the only means of item selection in the __RadTreeList__.

For further information on the different modes of item selection in __RadTreeList__, seethese articles:

[Client-side selection]({%slug treelist/functionality/selecting/client-side-selection%})

[Server-side selection]({%slug treelist/functionality/selecting/server-side-selection%})

## TreeListTemplateColumn

__TreeListTemplateColumn__ lets you define an item template and displays eachcell of the column in accordance to the template. Thus you can display different controls in the columnwhich enables you to cover a wide range of custom scenarios. You can also specify__InsertItemTemplate__ and __EditItemTemplate__ for this columnwhich are used respectively in insert and edit mode of the treelist. In order to bind the controls from thetemplates specified, you should use a binding expression like Eval() and Bind(). Here is an example of howa __TreeListTemplateColumn__ is declared in mark-up:

````XML
	            <telerik:TreeListTemplateColumn UniqueName="HomePhone" HeaderText="Template Column"
	                DataField="HomePhone" EditFormHeaderTextFormat="Home Phone: ">
	                <ItemTemplate>
	                    <asp:Label ID="Label2" runat="server" Text='<%# Eval("HomePhone")%>' />
	                </ItemTemplate>
	                <EditItemTemplate>
	                    <telerik:RadMaskedTextBox ID="RadMaskedTextBox1" runat="server" Mask="(###) ###-####"
	                        TextWithLiterals='<%# Bind("HomePhone")%>' AllowEmptyEnumerations="true" />
	                </EditItemTemplate>
	                <InsertItemTemplate>
	                    <telerik:RadMaskedTextBox ID="RadMaskedTextBox1" runat="server" Mask="(###) ###-####"
	                        TextWithLiterals='<%# Bind("HomePhone")%>' AllowEmptyEnumerations="true" />
	                </InsertItemTemplate>
	            </telerik:TreeListTemplateColumn>
````


