controls/grid/client-side-programming/events/onbatcheditopening.md, before:

---
title: OnBatchEditOpening
page_title: OnBatchEditOpening | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: OnBatchEditOpening
slug: grid/client-side-programming/events/onbatcheditopening
tags: onbatcheditopening
published: True
position: 85
---

# OnBatchEditOpening



## 

OnBatchEditOpening

This event is fired when a cell is opening for edit


|  **Fired by**  | RadGrid |
| ------ | ------ |
| **Arguments** | **cell** - gets the currently edited cell **row** - gets the currently edited row **column** - gets the currently edited column **columnUniqueName** - gets the UniqueName of the edited column **tableView** - gets the TableView in which the edited item is located **canceled** -returns a value indicating whether the event is canceled|
| **Can be canceled** |Yes, set args.set_cancel(true) to cancel|

Example:

````ASP.NET
<telerik:radgrid id="RadGrid1" datasourceid="SqlDataSource1">
    <MasterTableView EditMode="Batch">
    </MasterTableView>
    <ClientSettings>
        <ClientEvents OnBatchEditOpening="BatchEditOpening"/>
    </ClientSettings>
</telerik:radgrid>
````

````JavaScript
function BatchEditOpening(sender, args) {
    var row = args.get_row();
    var cell = args.get_cell();
    var tableView = args.get_tableView();
    var column = args.get_column();
    var columnUniqueName = args.get_columnUniqueName();
    var isCanceled = args.get_cancel();
}
````

Commit message:

docs(grid): batch edit access cells/controls client/server example; add cross-linking and general info

controls/grid/client-side-programming/events/onbatcheditopening.md, after:

---
title: OnBatchEditOpening
page_title: OnBatchEditOpening | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: OnBatchEditOpening
slug: grid/client-side-programming/events/onbatcheditopening
tags: onbatcheditopening
published: True
position: 85
---

# OnBatchEditOpening

This event is fired when a cell is opening for edit. You can prevent the cell from opening by cancelling it.


|  **Fired by**  | RadGrid |
| ------ | ------ |
| **Arguments** | **cell** - gets the currently edited cell **row** - gets the currently edited row **column** - gets the currently edited column **columnUniqueName** - gets the UniqueName of the edited column **tableView** - gets the TableView in which the edited item is located **canceled** -returns a value indicating whether the event is canceled|
| **Can be canceled** |Yes, set args.set_cancel(true) to cancel|

Example:

````ASP.NET
<telerik:radgrid id="RadGrid1" datasourceid="SqlDataSource1">
    <MasterTableView EditMode="Batch">
    </MasterTableView>
    <ClientSettings>
        <ClientEvents OnBatchEditOpening="BatchEditOpening"/>
    </ClientSettings>
</telerik:radgrid>
````

````JavaScript
function BatchEditOpening(sender, args) {
    var row = args.get_row();
    var cell = args.get_cell();
    var tableView = args.get_tableView();
    var column = args.get_column();
    var columnUniqueName = args.get_columnUniqueName();
    var isCanceled = args.get_cancel();
}
````
