controls/grid/client-side-programming/events/oncellselected.md, before:

---
title: OnCellSelected
page_title: OnCellSelected | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: OnCellSelected
slug: grid/client-side-programming/events/oncellselected
tags: oncellselected
published: True
position: 5
---

# OnCellSelected



## 

Telerik.Web.UI.GridColumnEventArgs OnCellSelected Property

>note To get or set property values for client API properties, you must call property accessor methods that are named with the get_ and set_ prefixes. For example, to get or set a value for a property such as [cancel](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb310859.aspx), you call the get_cancel or set_cancel.
>


This event is fired after a cell is selected.


|  **Fired by**  | RadGrid |
| ------ | ------ |
| **Arguments** | **cellIndexHierarchical** - returns the hierarchical index of the cell **column** - returns a reference to the corresponding [GridColumn]({%slug grid/client-side-programming/gridcolumn-object/gridcolumn-class-members%}) object **gridDataItem** - returns a reference to the corresponding GridDataItem object **row** - returns a reference to the correspong table row element **tableView** - returns a reference to the corresponding GridTableView object **cancel** - gets or sets the canceled status of the event|
| **Can be canceled** |No|

Example:

````JavaScript
function cellSelected(sender, args) {
    var selectedRow = args.get_row();
    var selectedColumn = args.get_column();
    var dataItem = args.get_gridDataItem();
    var tableView = args.get_tableView();           
    var cellIndex = args.get_cellIndexHierarchical();
    var output = String.format("The selected cell is located in column with name: " + selectedColumn.get_uniqueName() + " and in row with index: " +
     dataItem.get_itemIndexHierarchical() +". This cell has index "+cellIndex +" and it is part from "+tableView.get_name()+".");
    alert(output);
}
````

````ASP.NET
<ClientSettings>
    <Selecting CellSelectionMode="MultiCell" />
    <Scrolling AllowScroll="true" UseStaticHeaders="true" />
    <ClientEvents OnCellSelected="cellSelected" />
</ClientSettings>
````



A list of the possible options for the CellSelectionMode property could be found [here.]({%slug grid/functionality/selecting/selecting-cells-and-columns%})

Commit message:

docs(grid): add note about the event for cells in DetailTables

controls/grid/client-side-programming/events/oncellselected.md, after:

---
title: OnCellSelected
page_title: OnCellSelected | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: OnCellSelected
slug: grid/client-side-programming/events/oncellselected
tags: oncellselected
published: True
position: 5
---

# OnCellSelected



## 

Telerik.Web.UI.GridColumnEventArgs OnCellSelected Property

>note To get or set property values for client API properties, you must call property accessor methods that are named with the get_ and set_ prefixes. For example, to get or set a value for a property such as [cancel](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb310859.aspx), you call the get_cancel or set_cancel.
>


This event is fired after a cell is selected in the MasterTable. 

>note To raise **CellSelected** event for cells of **DetailTables** in **Hierarchical RadGrid**, select the cells manually using client-side logic. To do that, you can follow the approach from the [Select cells in RadGrid with Hierarchy](https://www.telerik.com/support/code-library/select-cells-in-radgrid-with-hierarchy) Code Library article)


|  **Fired by**  | RadGrid |
| ------ | ------ |
| **Arguments** | **cellIndexHierarchical** - returns the hierarchical index of the cell **column** - returns a reference to the corresponding [GridColumn]({%slug grid/client-side-programming/gridcolumn-object/gridcolumn-class-members%}) object **gridDataItem** - returns a reference to the corresponding GridDataItem object **row** - returns a reference to the correspong table row element **tableView** - returns a reference to the corresponding GridTableView object **cancel** - gets or sets the canceled status of the event|
| **Can be canceled** |No|

Example:

````JavaScript
function cellSelected(sender, args) {
    var selectedRow = args.get_row();
    var selectedColumn = args.get_column();
    var dataItem = args.get_gridDataItem();
    var tableView = args.get_tableView();           
    var cellIndex = args.get_cellIndexHierarchical();
    var output = String.format("The selected cell is located in column with name: " + selectedColumn.get_uniqueName() + " and in row with index: " +
     dataItem.get_itemIndexHierarchical() +". This cell has index "+cellIndex +" and it is part from "+tableView.get_name()+".");
    alert(output);
}
````

````ASP.NET
<ClientSettings>
    <Selecting CellSelectionMode="MultiCell" />
    <Scrolling AllowScroll="true" UseStaticHeaders="true" />
    <ClientEvents OnCellSelected="cellSelected" />
</ClientSettings>
````



A list of the possible options for the CellSelectionMode property could be found [here.]({%slug grid/functionality/selecting/selecting-cells-and-columns%})
