controls/spreadprocessing/working-with-cells/get-set-clear-properties.md, before:

---
title: Get, Set and Clear Cell Properties
page_title: Get, Set and Clear Cell Properties
description: Get, Set and Clear Cell Properties
slug: radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties
tags: get,,set,and,clear,cell,properties
published: True
position: 3
---

# Get, Set and Clear Cell Properties



Cells are the atomic parts of a worksheet and its basic data units. Each cell can be assigned a value, borders, fill, format, style and much more. This article aims to describe the properties offered by cells and demonstrate how to retrieve and change them. It contains the following sections:
      

* [Get Set and Clear Methods](#get,-set-and-clear-methods)

* [Cell Properties](#cell-properties)

* [Value Property](#value-property)

* [Borders Property](#borders-property)

* [Fill Property](#fill-property)

* [Indent Property](#indent-property)

## Get, Set and Clear Methods

In order to access cell properties, you have to create a __CellSelection__ object that contains the region of cells you would like to change. More information about retrieving __CellSelection__ instances is available in the [Accessing Cells of a Worksheet]({%slug radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-accessing-cells-of-worksheet%}) article.
        

__Example 1__ creates a selection for cells in the range A1:F6.
        

#### __[C#] Example 1: Create CellSelection A1:F6__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_0}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
    CellSelection selection = worksheet.Cells[0, 0, 5, 5];
{{endregion}}



Once you have a __CellSelection__ instance, you can easily set and retrieve the properties of its cells. Each property is manipulated through three methods that get, set and clear the value of the property, respectively. Typically, the set methods take a single argument, which indicates the value to be set. Similarly, the clear methods have no parameters and reset the properties to their default values. The get methods, however, require more attention.
        

With one minor exception, the get methods of all cell properties return an object of type __RangePropertyValue<T>__. The class exposes two properties that indicate the value of the property for the cell range:
        

* __IsIndeterminate__: Indicates whether the value of the retrieved property is consistent among all cells in the specified CellSelection. If the property has one and the same value for all cells, __IsIndeterminate__ is set to false. However, if the value of the retrieved property varies throughout the cells in the CellSelection, the __IsIndetermine__ property is set to true and the __Value__ property of the __RangePropertyValue<T>__ class is set to its default value.
            

* __Value__: Contains the value of the retrieved property. If the __IsIndeterminate__ property is set to false, __Value__ contains the value of the retrieved property for the whole CellSelection region. If the __IsIndeterminate__ property is set to true, the __Value__ property is set to its default value.
            

## Cell Properties

Cells in __RadSpreadsheet__ offer a number of properties that allow you to change their content and appearance. The following list outlines all cell properties:
        

* Value

* Border

* Fill

* FontFamily

* FontSize

* ForeColor

* Format

* HorizontalAlignment

* Indent

* IsBold

* IsItalic

* IsWrapped

* StyleName

* Underline

* VerticalAlignment

* IsLocked

As already mentioned, the __CellSelection__ class exposes methods that get, set and clear methods for each of the above properties. The names of the methods are constructed through concatenation of the action the method executes (Get, Set, Clear) and the name of the property. For example, the methods that get, set and clear the __IsBold__ property are respectively, __GetIsBold()__, __SetIsBold()__ and __ClearIsBold()__.
        

__Example 2__ illustrates how to use these methods on the region A1:F6:
        

#### __[C#] Example 2: Use GetIsBold(), SetIsBold() and ClearIsBold() methods__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_1}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
    CellSelection selection = worksheet.Cells[0, 0, 5, 5];

    selection.SetIsBold(true);
    bool isBold = selection.GetIsBold().Value;
    selection.ClearIsBold();
{{endregion}}



Using the above approach you can set the value of almost all cell properties. There are a few exceptions to the general get, set and clear rule, though, and each of them is described into one of the following sections.
        

## Value Property

The __Value__ property uses an instance of __ICellValue__ to retrieve and change its value. The property has support for the following types of cell values, all of which conform to the ICellValue interface: *EmptyCellValue*, *NumberCellValue*, *BooleanCellValue*, *TextCellValue*, *FormulaCellValue*. Similarly to the other properties, __Value__ has three methods that control the property: __GetValue()__, __SetValue()__ and __ClearValue()__. More information about different value types is available in the [Cell Value Types]({%slug radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-cell-value-types%}) article.
        

The __GetValue()__ method retrieves the value of the property and returns an instance of __RangePropertyValue<ICellValue>__. The __Value__ property of the __RangePropertyValue__ instance returns the actual value of the selected region.
        

__Example 3__ illustrates who to retrieve the value of cell B2:
        

#### __[C#] Example 3: Retrieve value of cell__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_7}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
    CellSelection selection = worksheet.Cells[1, 1];

    ICellValue cellValue = selection.GetValue().Value;
{{endregion}}



As the document model supports different types of cell values, the CellSelection class offers multiple overloads of the __SetValue()__ method that allow you to produce different types of values. For example, if you choose the method that accepts a double instance, the __Value__ of the cell will be an instance of NumberCellValue. The __SetValue()__  method has three more overloads that take DateTime, string and ICellValue, respectively.
        

__Example 4__ demonstrates how to set the value of a given selection.
        

#### __[C#] Example 4: Set value of CellSelection__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_2}}
    // set DateTime value
    selection.SetValue(DateTime.Now);

    // set double value
    selection.SetValue(51.345);

    // set ICellValue
    ICellValue value = worksheet.Cells[5, 5].GetValue().Value;
    selection.SetValue(value);

    // set string value
    selection.SetValue("Total");

    // set formula value
    selection.SetValue("=C1+C10");
{{endregion}}



## Borders Property

The __Borders__ property uses a __CellBorders__ object for getting and setting its property value. The __CellBorders__ class contains eight instances of type __CellBorder__ that describe respectively the left, top, right, bottom, inside horizontal, inside vertical, diagonal up, and diagonal down borders. In turn the __CellBorder__ object holds information about the style and color of the border. The __GetBorders()__ method returns an instance of RangePropertyValue<CellBorders>.
        

__Example 5__ demonstrates how to set the value of the Borders of the regions B2:C4 and E2:F4.
        

#### __[C#] Example 5: Set value of Borders__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_3}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
    ThemableColor purple = new ThemableColor(Color.FromRgb(155, 89, 182));
    ThemableColor darkBlue = new ThemableColor(Color.FromRgb(44, 62, 80));

    CellBorders purpleBorders = new CellBorders(new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Dotted, purple));
    worksheet.Cells[1, 1, 2, 2].SetBorders(purpleBorders);

    CellBorders darkBlueBorders = new CellBorders(
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Medium, darkBlue),   // Left border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Medium, darkBlue),   // Top border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Medium, darkBlue),   // Right border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Medium, darkBlue),   // Bottom border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Thin, purple),       // Inside horizontal border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Thin, purple),       // Inside vertical border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.None, darkBlue),     // Diagonal up border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.None, darkBlue));    // Diagonal down border

    worksheet.Cells[1, 4, 2, 5].SetBorders(darkBlueBorders);
{{endregion}}



The result of __Example 5__ is demonstrated in __Figure 1__:
        

Figure 1: Resulting Borders
![Rad Spread Processing Working With Cells Get Set Clear Properties 01](images/RadSpreadProcessing_Working_With_Cells_Get_Set_Clear_Properties_01.png)

## Fill Property

The __Fill__ property uses an __IFill__ object for getting and setting its property value. The document model supports two types of fills that are represented through the __PatternFill__ and __GradientFill__ classes, both of which conform to the __IFill__ interface.
        

As its name suggests, the __PatternFill__ object is used to fill the background of a region of cells using a repeated pattern of shapes. To create a PatternFill instance, you need to specify the type of the pattern, the background color and pattern color of the fill. You can choose between [eighteen types of patterns](http://www.telerik.com/help/wpf/t_telerik_windows_documents_spreadsheet_model_patterntype.html), such as HorizontalStripe, DiagonalCrossHatch, Gray75Percent and many more. The PatternFill object also allows you to set the background of a cell to a solid color.
        

__Example 6__ creates two PatternFill objects with a DiagonalStripe and Solid PatternType respectively.
        

#### __[C#] Example 6: Create and set PatternFill__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_4}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();

    PatternFill diagonalStripePatternFill = new PatternFill(PatternType.DiagonalStripe, Color.FromRgb(231, 76, 60), Color.FromRgb(241, 196, 15));
    worksheet.Cells[0, 0, 0, 5].SetFill(diagonalStripePatternFill);

    PatternFill solidPatternFill = new PatternFill(PatternType.Solid, Color.FromRgb(46, 204, 113), Colors.Transparent);
    worksheet.Cells[1, 0, 5, 5].SetFill(solidPatternFill);
{{endregion}}



The result of >Example 6 is illustrated in __Figure 2__

Figure 2: Applied PatternFill
![Rad Spread Processing Working With Cells Get Set Clear Properties 02](images/RadSpreadProcessing_Working_With_Cells_Get_Set_Clear_Properties_02.png)

The __GradientFill__ is used to set the background of a region of cell to a gradual blending of two colors. To create a GradientFill, you need to specify a [GradientType](http://www.telerik.com/help/wpf/t_telerik_windows_documents_spreadsheet_model_gradienttype.html), and the two colors that will blend.
        

__Example 7__ assigns the region A1:F1 a smooth horizontal green gradient.
        

#### __[C#] Example 7: Create and set GradientFill__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_5}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
    worksheet.Rows[0].SetHeight(new RowHeight(50, true));

    GradientFill greenGradientFill = new GradientFill(GradientType.Horizontal, Color.FromRgb(46, 204, 113), Color.FromRgb(0, 134, 56));
    worksheet.Cells[0, 0, 0, 5].SetFill(greenGradientFill);
{{endregion}}



The result of __Example 7__ is illustrated in __Figure 3__:
        

Figure 3: Applied GradientFill
![Rad Spread Processing Working With Cells Get Set Clear Properties 03](images/RadSpreadProcessing_Working_With_Cells_Get_Set_Clear_Properties_03.png)

## Indent Property

In addition to the __GetIndent()__, __SetIndent()__ and __ClearIndent()__ methods, CellSelection offers two more methods that are used to increase and decrease the value of the __Indent__ property. Those methods are __IncreaseIndent()__ and __DecreaseIndent()__ and neither of them takes arguments.
        

__Example 8__ snippet shows how to use those methods:
        

#### __[C#] Example 8: Increase and decrease indent__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_6}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
    CellSelection selection = worksheet.Cells[0, 0, 5, 5];

    selection.IncreaseIndent();
    selection.DecreaseIndent();
{{endregion}}



# See Also

 * [Cell Value Types]({%slug radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-cell-value-types%})
 * [PatternType Enumeration](http://www.telerik.com/help/wpf/t_telerik_windows_documents_spreadsheet_model_patterntype.html)
 * [GradientType Enumeration](http://www.telerik.com/help/wpf/t_telerik_windows_documents_spreadsheet_model_gradienttype.html)

Commit message:

XAML-related documentation with updated page_title attributes.

controls/spreadprocessing/working-with-cells/get-set-clear-properties.md, after:

---
title: Get, Set and Clear Cell Properties
page_title: Get, Set and Clear Cell Properties | RadSpreadProcessing for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Get, Set and Clear Cell Properties
slug: radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties
tags: get,,set,and,clear,cell,properties
published: True
position: 3
---

# Get, Set and Clear Cell Properties



Cells are the atomic parts of a worksheet and its basic data units. Each cell can be assigned a value, borders, fill, format, style and much more. This article aims to describe the properties offered by cells and demonstrate how to retrieve and change them. It contains the following sections:
      

* [Get Set and Clear Methods](#get,-set-and-clear-methods)

* [Cell Properties](#cell-properties)

* [Value Property](#value-property)

* [Borders Property](#borders-property)

* [Fill Property](#fill-property)

* [Indent Property](#indent-property)

## Get, Set and Clear Methods

In order to access cell properties, you have to create a __CellSelection__ object that contains the region of cells you would like to change. More information about retrieving __CellSelection__ instances is available in the [Accessing Cells of a Worksheet]({%slug radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-accessing-cells-of-worksheet%}) article.
        

__Example 1__ creates a selection for cells in the range A1:F6.
        

#### __[C#] Example 1: Create CellSelection A1:F6__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_0}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
    CellSelection selection = worksheet.Cells[0, 0, 5, 5];
{{endregion}}



Once you have a __CellSelection__ instance, you can easily set and retrieve the properties of its cells. Each property is manipulated through three methods that get, set and clear the value of the property, respectively. Typically, the set methods take a single argument, which indicates the value to be set. Similarly, the clear methods have no parameters and reset the properties to their default values. The get methods, however, require more attention.
        

With one minor exception, the get methods of all cell properties return an object of type __RangePropertyValue<T>__. The class exposes two properties that indicate the value of the property for the cell range:
        

* __IsIndeterminate__: Indicates whether the value of the retrieved property is consistent among all cells in the specified CellSelection. If the property has one and the same value for all cells, __IsIndeterminate__ is set to false. However, if the value of the retrieved property varies throughout the cells in the CellSelection, the __IsIndetermine__ property is set to true and the __Value__ property of the __RangePropertyValue<T>__ class is set to its default value.
            

* __Value__: Contains the value of the retrieved property. If the __IsIndeterminate__ property is set to false, __Value__ contains the value of the retrieved property for the whole CellSelection region. If the __IsIndeterminate__ property is set to true, the __Value__ property is set to its default value.
            

## Cell Properties

Cells in __RadSpreadsheet__ offer a number of properties that allow you to change their content and appearance. The following list outlines all cell properties:
        

* Value

* Border

* Fill

* FontFamily

* FontSize

* ForeColor

* Format

* HorizontalAlignment

* Indent

* IsBold

* IsItalic

* IsWrapped

* StyleName

* Underline

* VerticalAlignment

* IsLocked

As already mentioned, the __CellSelection__ class exposes methods that get, set and clear methods for each of the above properties. The names of the methods are constructed through concatenation of the action the method executes (Get, Set, Clear) and the name of the property. For example, the methods that get, set and clear the __IsBold__ property are respectively, __GetIsBold()__, __SetIsBold()__ and __ClearIsBold()__.
        

__Example 2__ illustrates how to use these methods on the region A1:F6:
        

#### __[C#] Example 2: Use GetIsBold(), SetIsBold() and ClearIsBold() methods__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_1}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
    CellSelection selection = worksheet.Cells[0, 0, 5, 5];

    selection.SetIsBold(true);
    bool isBold = selection.GetIsBold().Value;
    selection.ClearIsBold();
{{endregion}}



Using the above approach you can set the value of almost all cell properties. There are a few exceptions to the general get, set and clear rule, though, and each of them is described into one of the following sections.
        

## Value Property

The __Value__ property uses an instance of __ICellValue__ to retrieve and change its value. The property has support for the following types of cell values, all of which conform to the ICellValue interface: *EmptyCellValue*, *NumberCellValue*, *BooleanCellValue*, *TextCellValue*, *FormulaCellValue*. Similarly to the other properties, __Value__ has three methods that control the property: __GetValue()__, __SetValue()__ and __ClearValue()__. More information about different value types is available in the [Cell Value Types]({%slug radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-cell-value-types%}) article.
        

The __GetValue()__ method retrieves the value of the property and returns an instance of __RangePropertyValue<ICellValue>__. The __Value__ property of the __RangePropertyValue__ instance returns the actual value of the selected region.
        

__Example 3__ illustrates who to retrieve the value of cell B2:
        

#### __[C#] Example 3: Retrieve value of cell__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_7}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
    CellSelection selection = worksheet.Cells[1, 1];

    ICellValue cellValue = selection.GetValue().Value;
{{endregion}}



As the document model supports different types of cell values, the CellSelection class offers multiple overloads of the __SetValue()__ method that allow you to produce different types of values. For example, if you choose the method that accepts a double instance, the __Value__ of the cell will be an instance of NumberCellValue. The __SetValue()__  method has three more overloads that take DateTime, string and ICellValue, respectively.
        

__Example 4__ demonstrates how to set the value of a given selection.
        

#### __[C#] Example 4: Set value of CellSelection__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_2}}
    // set DateTime value
    selection.SetValue(DateTime.Now);

    // set double value
    selection.SetValue(51.345);

    // set ICellValue
    ICellValue value = worksheet.Cells[5, 5].GetValue().Value;
    selection.SetValue(value);

    // set string value
    selection.SetValue("Total");

    // set formula value
    selection.SetValue("=C1+C10");
{{endregion}}



## Borders Property

The __Borders__ property uses a __CellBorders__ object for getting and setting its property value. The __CellBorders__ class contains eight instances of type __CellBorder__ that describe respectively the left, top, right, bottom, inside horizontal, inside vertical, diagonal up, and diagonal down borders. In turn the __CellBorder__ object holds information about the style and color of the border. The __GetBorders()__ method returns an instance of RangePropertyValue<CellBorders>.
        

__Example 5__ demonstrates how to set the value of the Borders of the regions B2:C4 and E2:F4.
        

#### __[C#] Example 5: Set value of Borders__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_3}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
    ThemableColor purple = new ThemableColor(Color.FromRgb(155, 89, 182));
    ThemableColor darkBlue = new ThemableColor(Color.FromRgb(44, 62, 80));

    CellBorders purpleBorders = new CellBorders(new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Dotted, purple));
    worksheet.Cells[1, 1, 2, 2].SetBorders(purpleBorders);

    CellBorders darkBlueBorders = new CellBorders(
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Medium, darkBlue),   // Left border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Medium, darkBlue),   // Top border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Medium, darkBlue),   // Right border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Medium, darkBlue),   // Bottom border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Thin, purple),       // Inside horizontal border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.Thin, purple),       // Inside vertical border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.None, darkBlue),     // Diagonal up border
        new CellBorder(CellBorderStyle.None, darkBlue));    // Diagonal down border

    worksheet.Cells[1, 4, 2, 5].SetBorders(darkBlueBorders);
{{endregion}}



The result of __Example 5__ is demonstrated in __Figure 1__:
        

Figure 1: Resulting Borders
![Rad Spread Processing Working With Cells Get Set Clear Properties 01](images/RadSpreadProcessing_Working_With_Cells_Get_Set_Clear_Properties_01.png)

## Fill Property

The __Fill__ property uses an __IFill__ object for getting and setting its property value. The document model supports two types of fills that are represented through the __PatternFill__ and __GradientFill__ classes, both of which conform to the __IFill__ interface.
        

As its name suggests, the __PatternFill__ object is used to fill the background of a region of cells using a repeated pattern of shapes. To create a PatternFill instance, you need to specify the type of the pattern, the background color and pattern color of the fill. You can choose between [eighteen types of patterns](http://www.telerik.com/help/wpf/t_telerik_windows_documents_spreadsheet_model_patterntype.html), such as HorizontalStripe, DiagonalCrossHatch, Gray75Percent and many more. The PatternFill object also allows you to set the background of a cell to a solid color.
        

__Example 6__ creates two PatternFill objects with a DiagonalStripe and Solid PatternType respectively.
        

#### __[C#] Example 6: Create and set PatternFill__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_4}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();

    PatternFill diagonalStripePatternFill = new PatternFill(PatternType.DiagonalStripe, Color.FromRgb(231, 76, 60), Color.FromRgb(241, 196, 15));
    worksheet.Cells[0, 0, 0, 5].SetFill(diagonalStripePatternFill);

    PatternFill solidPatternFill = new PatternFill(PatternType.Solid, Color.FromRgb(46, 204, 113), Colors.Transparent);
    worksheet.Cells[1, 0, 5, 5].SetFill(solidPatternFill);
{{endregion}}



The result of >Example 6 is illustrated in __Figure 2__

Figure 2: Applied PatternFill
![Rad Spread Processing Working With Cells Get Set Clear Properties 02](images/RadSpreadProcessing_Working_With_Cells_Get_Set_Clear_Properties_02.png)

The __GradientFill__ is used to set the background of a region of cell to a gradual blending of two colors. To create a GradientFill, you need to specify a [GradientType](http://www.telerik.com/help/wpf/t_telerik_windows_documents_spreadsheet_model_gradienttype.html), and the two colors that will blend.
        

__Example 7__ assigns the region A1:F1 a smooth horizontal green gradient.
        

#### __[C#] Example 7: Create and set GradientFill__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_5}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
    worksheet.Rows[0].SetHeight(new RowHeight(50, true));

    GradientFill greenGradientFill = new GradientFill(GradientType.Horizontal, Color.FromRgb(46, 204, 113), Color.FromRgb(0, 134, 56));
    worksheet.Cells[0, 0, 0, 5].SetFill(greenGradientFill);
{{endregion}}



The result of __Example 7__ is illustrated in __Figure 3__:
        

Figure 3: Applied GradientFill
![Rad Spread Processing Working With Cells Get Set Clear Properties 03](images/RadSpreadProcessing_Working_With_Cells_Get_Set_Clear_Properties_03.png)

## Indent Property

In addition to the __GetIndent()__, __SetIndent()__ and __ClearIndent()__ methods, CellSelection offers two more methods that are used to increase and decrease the value of the __Indent__ property. Those methods are __IncreaseIndent()__ and __DecreaseIndent()__ and neither of them takes arguments.
        

__Example 8__ snippet shows how to use those methods:
        

#### __[C#] Example 8: Increase and decrease indent__

{{region radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-get-set-clear-properties_6}}
    Workbook workbook = new Workbook();
    Worksheet worksheet = workbook.Worksheets.Add();
    CellSelection selection = worksheet.Cells[0, 0, 5, 5];

    selection.IncreaseIndent();
    selection.DecreaseIndent();
{{endregion}}



# See Also

 * [Cell Value Types]({%slug radspreadprocessing-working-with-cells-cell-value-types%})
 * [PatternType Enumeration](http://www.telerik.com/help/wpf/t_telerik_windows_documents_spreadsheet_model_patterntype.html)
 * [GradientType Enumeration](http://www.telerik.com/help/wpf/t_telerik_windows_documents_spreadsheet_model_gradienttype.html)
