---
title: Telerik.Web.UI.CaptchaImage
page_title: Telerik.Web.UI.CaptchaImage
description: Telerik.Web.UI.CaptchaImage
---

# Telerik.Web.UI.CaptchaImage

RadCaptcha image generation class

## Inheritance Hierarchy

* System.Object
* Telerik.Web.UI.CaptchaImage

## Properties

###  UniqueId `String`

Gets a GUID that uniquely identifies this CaptchaImage

###  RenderedAt `DateTime`

Gets the date and time this image was last rendered

###  RenderImageOnly `Boolean`

Gets or sets bool value that indicates
            whether the RadCaptcha Image will only be rendered on the page (without the textbox and Label).

###  FontFamily `String`

Gets or sets the font used to render RadCaptcha text.

###  UseRandomFont `Boolean`

Gets or sets a bool value indicating 
            whether a random font will be used to generate the CaptchaImage text.

###  FontWarp `CaptchaFontWarpFactor`

Gets or sets the amount of random font warping used on the RadCaptcha text.

###  BackgroundNoise `CaptchaBackgroundNoiseLevel`

Gets or sets the amount of background noise to generate in the RadCaptcha image.

###  LineNoise `CaptchaLineNoiseLevel`

Gets or sets the line noise level to the RadCaptcha image.

###  TextChars `CaptchaPossibleChars`

Gets or sets the characters used to render RadCaptcha text. 
            A character will be picked randomly from the string.

###  CharSet `String`

Gets or sets a custom Character Set, from which the characters 
            used to render RadCaptcha, are randomly chosen. The TextChars property must be set to CustomCharSet.

###  TextColor `Color`

Gets or sets the color of the RadCaptcha text.

###  BackgroundColor `Color`

Gets or sets the background color of the CaptchaImage.

###  TextLength `Int32`

Gets or sets the number of CaptchaChars used in the RadCaptcha text.

###  Text `String`

Gets the randomly generated RadCaptcha text.

###  Width `Int32`

Gets or sets the width of the RadCaptcha image.

###  Height `Int32`

Gets or sets the height of the RadCaptcha image.

###  FontWhitelist `String`

Gets or sets a semicolon-delimited list of valid fonts to use when no font is provided.

###  ImageAlternativeText `String`

Gets or sets the RadCaptcha image alternative text.

###  ImageCssClass `String`

Gets or sets the RadCaptcha image CSS class.

###  EnableCaptchaAudio `Boolean`

Gets or sets the bool value indicating whether the CaptchaAudio will be enabled.

###  AudioFilesPath `String`

Gets or sets the path to the directory where the audio (.wav) files are located.
            The default value is ~/App_Data/RadCaptcha.

#### Remarks
Use the AudioFilesPath property to specify the directory where the audio (*.wav) files are located, and from which the 
            audio code is generated. The audio files must be named "[Char]".wav (i.e. A.wav, B.wav, C.wav, 1.wav, 2.wav) and should contain the audio that
            corresponds to the specific character. Place the RadCaptcha folder (provided with the installation) in the App_Data directory of your WebSite.

###  UseAudioFiles `Boolean`

Gets or sets a bool value indicating whether the audio code will be generated by concatenation of the audio files from a given folder.

###  EnableAudioNoise `Boolean`

Gets or sets a boolean value indicating whether a noise should be added to the CaptchaAudio.

###  PreviousText `String`

Gets the previous text of the CaptchaImage.

###  PersistCodeDuringAjax `Boolean`

Gets or sets a bool value that indicates whether or not the Captcha will persist the code during Ajax requests that do not affect
            the RadCaptcha control. The default is false, which means a new code will be generated on every trip to the server (no matter if full or partial postback).
            Note: This property is useful when there is another Ajax panel on the page that does not update the Captcha. Setting it to true will cause the RadCaptcha control to persist its code during the Ajax requests.

## Methods

###  RenderImage

Forces a new Captcha image to be generated using current property value settings.

#### Returns

`System.Drawing.Bitmap` 

###  RandomFontFamily

Returns a random font family from the font whitelist

#### Returns

`System.String` 

###  IsOffensiveWord

Checks whether the current code is an offensive word.

#### Returns

`System.Boolean` True if the word is offensive.

###  GenerateCode

Generates a new RadCaptcha code.

#### Parameters

#### filterWords `System.Boolean`

Bool value that indicates whether or not bad words will be filtered. 
            RadCaptcha has a built-in list of words that should not appear on the image.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  GenerateCode

Generates a new RadCaptcha code.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  GenerateRandomText

Generates random text for the RadCaptcha.

#### Returns

`System.String` 

###  RandomPoint

Returns a random point within the specified x and y ranges.

#### Returns

`System.Drawing.PointF` 

###  RandomPoint

Returns a random point within the specified rectangle.

#### Returns

`System.Drawing.PointF` 

###  TextPath

Returns a GraphicsPath containing the specified string and font.

#### Returns

`System.Drawing.Drawing2D.GraphicsPath` 

###  GetFont

Returns the RadCaptcha font in an appropriate size.

#### Returns

`System.Drawing.Font` 

###  GenerateImagePrivate

Renders the RadCaptcha image.

#### Returns

`System.Drawing.Bitmap` 

###  WarpText

Warps the provided text GraphicsPath by a variable amount.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  AddNoise

Add a variable level of graphic noise to the image.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  AddLine

Add variable level of curved lines to the image

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

