---
title: Telerik.Web.UI.GridNumericColumn
page_title: Telerik.Web.UI.GridNumericColumn
description: Telerik.Web.UI.GridNumericColumn
---

# Telerik.Web.UI.GridNumericColumn

When in browser mode, GridNumericColumn looks and behaves like a standard GridBoundColumn. 
            When in edit mode, however, it displays a RadNumericTextBox control. 
            This column type is for numeric values. Its DataField property must identify a field with 
            a valid data type (Number or Decimal).
            This column type is editable (implements the IGridEditableColumn interface) and by default 
            provides GridNumericColumnEditor as its column editor.

## Inheritance Hierarchy

* System.Object
* Telerik.Web.UI.GridColumn : IComparable, IStateManager
* Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditableColumn : IGridDataColumn, IGridEditableColumn
* Telerik.Web.UI.GridBoundColumn
* Telerik.Web.UI.GridNumericColumn

## Properties

###  DbValueFactor `Double`

Gets or sets a value indicating the multiplication factor.

###  NumericType `NumericType`

Gets or sets the NumericType property of the  control.

###  AllowRounding `Boolean`

Gets or sets the NumberFormat.AllowRounding property of the  control.

###  KeepNotRoundedValue `Boolean`

Gets or sets the NumberFormat.KeepNotRoundedValue property of the  control.

###  DecimalDigits `Int32`

Gets or sets the NumberFormat.DecimalDigits property of the  control.

###  MaxValue `Double`

Gets or sets the largest possible value of a GridNumericColumn.

###  MinValue `Double`

Gets or sets the smallest possible value of a GridNumericColumn.

###  ShowSpinButtons `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether the button is displayed in the
            RadInput control.

###  AllowOutOfRangeAutoCorrect `Boolean`

Gets or sets whether the GridNumericColumn should autocorrect out of range values to valid values

###  NumericDataType `Type`

Type of object that is used to wrap the DbValue property.

###  DataField `String`

Gets or sets the field name from the specified data source to bind to the
            GridBoundColumn.

###  ColumnValidationSettings `GridColumnValidationSettings`

Gets a reference to the  object that
            allows you to set the properties associated with the columns' validation base on autogenerated validators.

###  Aggregate `GridAggregateFunction`

Gets or sets the field name from the specified data source to bind to the
            GridBoundColumn.

###  HtmlEncode `Boolean`

Sets or gets whether cell content must be encoded. Default value is
            false.

###  EmptyDataText `String`

Sets or gets default text when column is empty. Default value is
            "&nbsp;"

###  FooterAggregateFormatString `GridAggregateFunction`

Gets or sets the footer aggregate format string.

###  MaxLength `Int32`

Gets or Sets an integer, specifying the maximum number of characters, which will
            be accepted in the edit textbox for the field, when in edit mode.

###  DataFormatString `String`

Gets or sets the string that specifies the display format for items in the
            column.

#### Remarks
Use the DataFormatString property to provide a custom format for the items
            in the column.The data format string consists of two parts, separated by a colon, in the form {
            A : Bxx }.
            For example, the formatting string {0:C2} displays a currency formatted number with two
            decimal places.Note: The entire string must be enclosed in braces to indicate
            that it is a format string and not a literal string. Any text outside the braces is
            displayed as literal text.The value before the colon (A in the general
            example) specifies the parameter index in a zero-based list of parameters.Note: This value can only be set to 0 because there is only one
            value in each cell.The value before the colon (A in the general
            example) specifies the parameter index in a zero-based list of parameters.The character after the colon (B in the general
            example) specifies the format to display the value in. The following table lists the
            common formats.Format characterDescriptionCDisplays numeric values in currency format.DDisplays numeric values in decimal format.EDisplays numeric values in scientific (exponential)
            format.FDisplays numeric values in fixed format.GDisplays numeric values in general format.NDisplays numeric values in number format.XDisplays numeric values in hexadecimal
            format.Note: The format character is not case-sensitive, except for
            X, which displays the hexadecimal characters in the case specified.The value after the format character
            (xx in the general example) specifies the number of
            significant digits or decimal places to display.For more information on formatting strings, see
            Formatting
            Overview (external link to MSDN library).

###  IsEditable `Boolean`

Gets a boolean value, indicating whether the column is editable. A ReadOnly
            column will return a false value for this property. The property is readOnly.

###  ColumnEditorID `String`

Gets or sets the column editor ID that will be used when the column is displayed in edit mode.

###  CurrentColumnEditor `IGridColumnEditor`

Get the current colum editor. If the column editor is not assigned at the moment the column will search for the ColumnEditorID on the page or should
            create its default column editor

###  ColumnEditor `IGridColumnEditor`

Gets the column editor instance for this column.

###  ConvertEmptyStringToNull `Boolean`

Convert the emty string to null when extracting values for inserting, updating, deleting

###  UseNativeEditorsInMobileMode `Boolean`

Gets or sets whether the column editor will be native when gird's RenderMode is set to Mobile

###  DefaultInsertValue `String`

Gets or sets a default value for the column when the row is in Insert mode

###  ReadOnly `Boolean`

Gets or sets the readonly status of the column. The column will be displayed in
            browser mode (unless its Visible property is false)
            but will not appear in the edit-form.

###  InsertVisiblityMode `GridColumnVisibilityMode`

Gets or sets a value determining whether a editor
            will be displayed in the insert item.
            Inherited: The visibility is dependent on the value of the ReadOnly property.
            AlwaysVisible: The insert item is always visible
            AlwaysHidden: The insert item is always hidden

###  ForceExtractValue `GridForceExtractValues`

Force RadGrid to extract values from EditableColumns that are ReadOnly (or IsEditable is false).

###  AllowSorting `Boolean`

Gets or sets a whether the column data can be sorted.

###  AllowFiltering `Boolean`

Gets or sets whether the column data can be filtered.

###  HeaderTooltip `String`

Gets or sets the header tooltip of the column.

###  HeaderAbbr `String`

Gets or sets the column cell 'abbr' attribute.

###  HeaderAxis `String`

Gets or sets the column cell 'axis' attribute.

###  SortedBackColor `Color`

Gets or sets the color of a cell which is sorted.

###  CurrentFilterValue `String`

Gets or sets a value of the currently applied filter.

###  AndCurrentFilterValue `String`

Gets or sets a value of the currently applied second filter condition value.

###  Selected `Boolean`

Indicates whether all column cells have been selected

###  Selectable `Boolean`

Gets the value determining if the column is selectable.

###  Sortable `Boolean`

Should override if sorting will be disabled

###  CurrentFilterFunction `GridKnownFunction`

Gets or sets the current function used for filtering.

###  AndCurrentFilterFunction `GridKnownFunction`

Gets or sets the current second filter condition function.

###  FilterDelay `Nullable`1`

Gets or sets the filter delay which determines after how many milliseconds a 
            filtering will occur after a filter value have changed.

###  Exportable `Boolean`

Determines whether the given column will be shown in the exported file

###  ShowFilterIcon `Boolean`

Gets or sets if the filter icon in the  will be visible.

###  FilterListOptions `GridFilterListOptions`

Gets or sets the value indincating which of the filter functions should be
            available for that column. For more information see
             enumaration.

###  AutoPostBackOnFilter `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether the grid should automatically postback,
            when the value in the filter text-box changes, and the the focus moves to another
            element.

###  FilterImageToolTip `String`

Gets or sets the filter image tool tip.

###  FilterControlToolTip `String`

Gets or sets the filter control ToolTip property value.

###  FilterImageUrl `String`

Gets or sets a string representing the URL to the image used in the filtering
            box.

###  SortAscImageUrl `String`

Gets or sets a string representing the URL to the image used for sorting in
            ascending mode.

###  SortDescImageUrl `String`

Gets or sets a string representing the URL to the image used for sorting in
            descending mode.

###  DataTypeName `String`

Gets the string representation of the DataType property of the
            column, needed for the client-side grid instance.

###  ListOfFilterValues `String[]`

Access the valus passed from the ListBox used for CheckList in the filter.

###  FilterTemplate `ITemplate`

Gets or sets the template, which will be rendered in the filter item cell of the column.

###  RowSpan `Int32`

For internal use. Gets or sets the row span of the grid column.

###  FooterStyle `TableItemStyle`

Style of the cell in the footer item of the grid, corresponding to the column.

###  FooterText `String`

Use the FooterText property to specify your own or determine the current
            text for the footer section of the column.

###  HeaderImageUrl `String`

Gets or sets the URL of an image in the cell in the header item of the grid
            current column. You can use a relative or an absolute URL.

###  HeaderStyle `TableItemStyle`

Style of the cell in the header item of the grid, corresponding to the column.

###  HeaderText `String`

Use the HeaderText property to specify your own or determine the current
            text for the header section of the column.

###  ItemStyle `TableItemStyle`

Style of the cells, corresponding to the column.

###  Owner `GridTableView`

Gets the instance of the GridTableVeiw wich owns this column instance.

###  SortExpression `String`

The string representing a filed-name from the DataSource that should be used when grid sorts by this column. For example:
            'EmployeeName'

###  GroupByExpression `String`

The group-expression that should be used when grid is grouping-by this column. If
            not set explicitly, RadGrid will generate a group expression based on the DataField of
            the column (if available), using the 
            method.The grouping can be turned on/off for columns like GridBoundColumn using
             property.For more information about the Group-By expressions and their syntax, see
             class.

###  ShowSortIcon `Boolean`

Get or Sets a value indicating whether a sort icon should appear next to the
            header button, when a column is sorted.

###  Visible `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating if the column and all corresponding cells would be rendered.

###  Display `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether the cells corresponding to a column would be rendered with a 'display:none' style attribute (end-user-not-visible).
            To completely prevent cells from rendering, set the  property to false, instead of the Display property.

###  OwnerID `GridTableView`

Gets the value of the ClientID property of the GridTableView that owns this column. This property value is used by grid's client object

###  OwnerGridID `GridTableView`

Gets the value of the ClientID property of the RadGrid instance that owns this column. This property value is used by grid's client object

###  Resizable `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether the column can be resized client-side.
            You can use this property, by setting it to false, to disable resizing for a particular
            column, while preserving this functionality for all the other columns.

###  Reorderable `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether the column can be reordered client-side.

###  Groupable `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether you will be able to group
            Telerik RadGrid by that column. By default this property is
            true.

#### Remarks
See Telerik RadGrid manual for details about using grouping. If
            Groupable is false the column header cannot be dragged to the
            GroupPanel.

###  ColumnType `String`

Gets the string representation of the type-name of this instance. The value is
            used by RadGrid to determine the type of the columns persisted into the ViewState, when
            recreating the grid after postback. The value is also used by the grid client-side
            object. This property is read only.

###  HeaderButtonType `GridHeaderButtonType`

Gets or sets the button type of the button rendered in the header item, used
                for sorting. The possible values that this property accepts are:Telerik.Web.UI.GridHeaderButtonType.LinkButton
                Telerik.Web.UI.GridHeaderButtonType.PushButton
                Telerik.Web.UI.GridHeaderButtonType.TextButton

###  OrderIndex `Int32`

Gets or sets the order index of column in the collection of
                . Use
                 method for reordering the columns.

#### Remarks
We recommend using this property only for getting the order index for a
                    specific column instead of setting it. Use
                     method for reordering columns.
                Note that changing the column order index will change the order of the cells
                in the grid items, after the grid is rebound.
                    The value of the property would not affect the order of the column in the
                     collection.

###  IsEditable `Boolean`

This property is supposed for developers of new grid columns. It gets whether
                a column is currently ReadOnly. The ReadOnly property determines whether a column
                will be editable in edit mode. A column for which the ReadOnly property is true
                will not be present in the automatically generated edit form.

###  EditFormColumnIndex `Int32`

Specifies the vertical collumn number where this column will appear when
                using EditForms editing mode and the form is autogenerated. See the remarks for
                details.

#### Remarks
A practicle example of using this property is to deterimine the number of
                columns rendered in the edit form. If there will be only one column in the rendered
                edit form, when we retrieve the value of this property for a column, as shown in
                the code below:protected void RadGrid1_PreRender(object sender, EventArgs e)    {int columnIndex = RadGrid1.MasterTableView.Columns[3].EditFormColumnIndex;    }it will be equal to 0, meaning the the column belongs to the first group of
                columns in the edit form.

###  UniqueName `String`

Each column in Telerik RadGrid has an UniqueName
            property (string). This property is assigned automatically by the designer (or the
            first time you want to access the columns if they are built dynamically).

#### Remarks
You can also set it explicitly, if you prefer. However, the automatic
                generation handles most of the cases. For example a
                GridBoundColumn with DataField 'ContactName'
                would generate an UniqueName of 'ContactName'.Additionally, there may be occasions when you will want to set the UniqueName
                explicitly. You can do so simply by specifying the custom name that you want to
                choose:<radG:GridTemplateColumn UniqueName="ColumnUniqueName"></radG:GridTemplateColumn>

###  EditFormHeaderTextFormat `String`

String that formats the HeaderText when the column is displayed in an edit form

###  DataType `Type`

Gets or sets (see the Remarks) the type of the data from the DataField as it
                was set in the DataSource.

#### Remarks
The DataType property supports the following base .NET Framework data
                types:BooleanByteCharDateTimeDecimalDoubleInt16Int32Int64SByteSingleStringTimeSpanUInt16UInt32UInt64

###  FilterControlWidth `Unit`

Use this property to set width to the filtering control (depending on the column type, this may be a normal textbox, RadNumericTextBox, RadDatePicker, etc.)

###  FilterControlAltText `String`

Gets or Sets the text value which should be added to alt attribute of the filter control

###  FilterCheckListWebServiceMethod `String`

Get or Set the Methood from CheckListWebServicePath Web Service defined in the TableView,
            that to be used for getting data for the filter check list

###  FilterCheckListEnableLoadOnDemand `Boolean`

Get or Set if the Filter Check List will load data on demand from server.

## Methods

###  Clone

Creates a copy of the current column.

#### Remarks
Note: When implementing/overriding this method be sure to call
            the base member or call CopyBaseProperties to be sure that all base
            properties will be copied accordingly

#### Returns

`Telerik.Web.UI.GridColumn` 

###  RefreshCurrentFilterValue

Modifies the CurrentFilterValue property according to the
            corresponding selected item in the filter text-box control in the filtering
            item.

#### Parameters

#### filteringItem `Telerik.Web.UI.GridFilteringItem`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  RefreshCurrentFilterValue

Modifies the CurrentFilterFunction and
            CurrentFilterValue properties according to the function given and the
            corresponding filter text-box control in the filtering item.

#### Parameters

#### filteringItem `Telerik.Web.UI.GridFilteringItem`

#### functionName `System.String`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  Initialize

Resets the GridBoundColumn to its initial state.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  InitializeCell

Resets the specified cell in the GridBoundColumn to its initial
            state.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  SupportsFiltering

This method should be used in case you develop your own column. It returns true
            if the column supports filtering.

#### Returns

`System.Boolean` 

###  GetDefaultGroupByExpression

Calculate the default Group-by expression based on the settings of the
            DataField (if available)

#### Remarks
For example, if a column's DataField is ProductType the default group-by expression will be:
            'ProductType Group By ProductType'

#### Returns

`System.String` 

###  IsBoundToFieldName

This method returns true if the column is bound to the specified field
            name.

#### Parameters

#### name `System.String`

The name of the DataField, which will be checked.

#### Returns

`System.Boolean` 

###  FillValues

Extracts the values from the editedItem and fills the names/values pairs for each data-field edited by the column in the newValues dictionary.

#### Parameters

#### newValues `System.Collections.IDictionary`

dictionary to fill. This param should not be null (Nothing in VB.NET)

#### editableItem `Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditableItem`

the GridEditableItem to extract values from

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  GetCustomPropertyDataFields

This method should be used in case you develop your own column. It returns the
            full list of DataFields used by the column.
            GridTableView uses this to decide which DataFields
            from the specified DataSource will be inlcuded in case of
            GridTableView.RetrieveAllDataFields is set to
            false.

#### Parameters

#### dataItemInstance `System.Object`

#### Returns

`System.Collections.IDictionary` 

###  Clone

Creates a copy of the current column.

#### Remarks
Note: When implementing/overriding this method be sure to call
            the base member or call CopyBaseProperties to be sure that all base
            properties will be copied accordingly

#### Returns

`Telerik.Web.UI.GridColumn` 

###  FillValues

Extracts the values from the editedItem and fills the names/values pairs for each data-field edited by the column in the newValues dictionary.

#### Parameters

#### newValues `System.Collections.IDictionary`

dictionary to fill. This param should not be null (Nothing in VB.NET)

#### editableItem `Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditableItem`

the GridEditableItem to extract values from

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ShouldExtractValues

Get value based on the current IsEditable state, item edited state and ForceExtractValue setting.

#### Parameters

#### item `Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditableItem`

item to check to extract values from

#### Returns

`System.Boolean` 

###  GetActiveDataField

Returns the DataField that will be used for Filter and Sorting operations

#### Returns

`System.String` 

###  InheritanceSafeClone

#### Returns

`Telerik.Web.UI.GridColumn` 

###  Initialize

The Initialize method is inherited by a derived
            GridColumn class. Is is used to reset a column of the derived
            type.

#### Remarks
This method is mainly used to reset properties common for all column types
            derived from GridColumn class.The Initialize method is usually called during data-binding, prior to the
            first row being bound.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  InitializeCell

After a call to this method the column should add the corresponding controls
            (text, labels, input controls) into the cell given, regarding the inItem type and
            column index.Note: This method is called within RadGrid and is not intended
            to be used directly from your code.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  SupportsFiltering

This method should be used in case you develop your own column. It returns true
            if the column supports filtering.

#### Returns

`System.Boolean` 

###  RefreshCurrentFilterValue

Modifies the CurrentFilterFunction and
            CurrentFilterValue properties according to the function given and the
            corresponding filter text-box control in the filtering item.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  RefreshCurrentFilterValue

Modifies the CurrentFilterValue property according to the
            corresponding selected item in the filter text-box control in the filtering
            item.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  SetCurrentFilterValueToControl

Sets the value of the property CurrentFilterValue as a text on the TextBox control found in the cell

#### Parameters

#### cell `System.Web.UI.WebControls.TableCell`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  GetCurrentFilterValueFromControl

Gets the value of the Text property of a textbox control found in the cell, used to set the value of the CurrentFilterValue property.

#### Parameters

#### cell `System.Web.UI.WebControls.TableCell`

#### Returns

`System.String` 

###  EvaluateFilterExpression

Gets a string representing a filter expression, based on the settings of all
            columns that support filtering, with a syntax ready to be used by a
            DataView object

#### Returns

`System.String` 

###  EvaluateFilterExpression

Evaluates the column filter expression based on the , , 
            ,  propeties. It could be used to handle custom 
            filtering and is internally used for determining  FilterExpression value.

#### Returns

`System.String` 

###  SetupFilterControls

Instantiates the filter controls (text-box, image.) in the cell given

#### Parameters

#### cell `System.Web.UI.WebControls.TableCell`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  GetFilterFunctionsList

Gets a list of filter functions based on the settings of the  property.

#### Parameters

#### options `Telerik.Web.UI.GridFilterListOptions`

#### sourceList `System.Collections.ArrayList`

#### Returns

`System.Collections.ArrayList` 

###  PrepareCell

Prepares the cell of the item given, when grid is rendered.

#### Parameters

#### cell `System.Web.UI.WebControls.TableCell`

#### item `Telerik.Web.UI.GridItem`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ToString

#### Returns

`System.String` 

###  ResetCurrentFilterValue

Resets the values of the  and
             properties to their defaults.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ResetCurrentFilterValue

Resets the values of the ,
            ,  and
             properties to their defaults.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  GetSortExpression

By default returns the SortExpression of the column. If the SortExpression is not set explicitly, it would be calculated, based on the
            DataField of the column.

#### Returns

`System.String` 

###  GetDefaultGroupByExpression

Calculate the default Group-by expression based on the settings of the
            DataField (if available)

#### Remarks
For example, if a column's DataField is ProductType the default group-by expression will be:
            'ProductType Group By ProductType'

#### Returns

`System.String` 

###  Clone

Creates a copy of the current column.

#### Remarks
Note: When implementing/overriding this method be sure to call
            the base member or call CopyBaseProperties to be sure that all base
            properties will be copied accordingly

#### Returns

`Telerik.Web.UI.GridColumn` 

###  IsBoundToFieldName

This method returns true if the column is bound to the specified field
            name.

#### Parameters

#### name `System.String`

The name of the DataField, which will be checked.

#### Returns

`System.Boolean` 

###  CompareTo

#### Returns

`System.Int32` 

###  GetCustomPropertyDataFields

This method should be used in case you develop your own column. It returns the
            full list of DataFields used by the column.
            GridTableView uses this to decide which DataFields
            from the specified DataSource will be inlcuded in case of
            GridTableView.RetrieveAllDataFields is set to
            false.

#### Returns

`System.Collections.IDictionary` 

###  AddSubPropertyFieldInfo

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

