---
title: Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditFormSettings
page_title: Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditFormSettings
description: Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditFormSettings
---

# Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditFormSettings

Settings for the edit forms generated by a Telerik.Web.UI.GridTableView for each item that is in edit mode and the 
            P:Telerik.Web.UI.GridTableView.EditMode is set to F:Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditMode.EditForms .

#### Remarks
Set the type of the EditForm using P:Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditFormSettings.EditFormType .
            If the type is F:Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditFormType.AutoGenerated then the form will be autogenerated based on the
            columns of the corresponding table view. Note that only the columns that are editable wil be included. Those are
            the standatrd columns that have editing capabilities - such Telerik.Web.UI.GridBoundColumn that has 
            P:Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditableColumn.ReadOnly set to false. All the style properties apply only to the autogenerated edit form.
            See Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditFormType for more details on the types of the edit forms.

## Inheritance Hierarchy

* System.Object
* Telerik.Web.UI.GridEditFormSettings

## Properties

###  EditColumn `GridEditCommandColumn`

Set properties of the update-cancel buttons column that appears in an edit form

###  ColumnNumber `Int32`

Number of vertical columns to split all edit fields on the form when it is autogenerated.
            Each GridColumn has a  to choose the column where
            the editor would appear.

###  CaptionDataField `String`

Data field to incude in form's caption

###  CaptionFormatString `String`

Caption format string - {0} parameter must be included and would be repaced with DataField value

###  InsertCaption `String`

Caption for the pop-up insert form

###  FormStyle `Style`

Style of the forms's area (rendered as a DIV elemet)

###  FormTableStyle `TableStyle`

Style of the forms' table element

###  FormMainTableStyle `TableStyle`

Style of the forms' main table element

###  FormCaptionStyle `TableItemStyle`

Style of the table row that shows the caption of the form

###  FormTableItemStyle `TableItemStyle`

Style of the normal rows in the edit-form's table

###  FormTableAlternatingItemStyle `TableItemStyle`

Style of the alternating rows in the edit-form's table

###  FormTableButtonRowStyle `TableItemStyle`

Style of the footer row of the table, where the update-cancel buttons appear

###  EditFormType `GridEditFormType`

Specifies the type of the edit form. See  about details for 
            the possible values and their meanings.

###  UserControlName `String`

Name (filename) of the  if  is of type .

#### Remarks
You have two options regarding the implementation of the web user control depending on the 
            desired mode of exchanging data between Telerik RadGrid and the UserControl instances.
            As the binding container of the edit form is a GridEditFormItem and UserControl is a binding container iteself too,
            in order to access data from the object currently the edit form is binding to 
            the binding-expressions used in the UserControl should be implemented in a slightly different then the traditional way.
            Here is an example of declaration of a TextBox server control that should be bound to the Region property
            of the DataItem in RadGrid:
            
            <asp:TextBox id="TextBox1" runat="server" Text='<%# DataBinder.Eval( Container, "Parent.BindingContainer.DataItem.Region") %>;' />
            
            The container object is always the UserControl isself. That is why you should refer the parent
            object, which is actually a edit for table cell in the grid's . Then 
            the BindingContainer would refer the binding GridEditFormItem instance.
            
            If using this kind of expression seems in some way uncorfotable, you have another option. 
            You user control should implement a property with name DataItem. The type of the propertry
            should be public and assignable from the type of the object that construct the data-source for RadGrid.
            For example if you bind to a DataSet then the DataItem can be declared as:
            c#:
            
            
            private DataRowView _dataItem = null;
            
            public DataRowView DataItem
            {
            	get
            	{
            		return this._dataItem;
            	}
            	set
            	{
            		this._dataItem = value;
            	}
            }
            
            
            VB.NET
            
            private _dataItem As DataRowView = Nothing
            
            Public Property DataItem As DataRowView
            	Get
            		Return Me._dataItem
            	End Get
            	Set (ByVal value As DataRowView)
            		Me._dataItem = value
            	End Set
            End Property
            
            
            DataItem can also be declared as of type object.
            
            Then in the usercontrol code, an expression binding the text of a TextBox control 
            to the Country property of the datasource item can be declared this way:
            
            <asp:TextBox id="TextBox1" runat="server" Text='<%# DataBinder.Eval( Container, "DataItem.Country"  ) %>'>
            </asp:TextBox>

###  FormTemplate `ITemplate`

EditForm template - if EditFormType if  is of type .

###  PopUpSettings `GridPopUpSettings`

Gets a reference to  class providing properties
                related to PopUp EditForm.

###  FormMainTableSummary `String`

The summary attribute for the table that wraps the whole .

###  FormMainTableCaption `String`

The caption for the table that wraps the whole .

###  AutoGeneratedColumnEditorsTableWrapperSummary `String`

The summary attribute for the table which holds all cells created from the grid column editors.

###  AutoGeneratedColumnEditorsTableWrapperCaption `String`

The caption for the table which holds all cells created from the grid column editors.

