---
title: Telerik.Web.UI.RadTreeList
page_title: Telerik.Web.UI.RadTreeList
description: Telerik.Web.UI.RadTreeList
---

# Telerik.Web.UI.RadTreeList

Telerik.Web.UI.RadTreeList is a data visualization control used for hierarchical representation of self-referencing data.

## Inheritance Hierarchy

* System.Object
* System.Web.UI.Control
* System.Web.UI.WebControls.WebControl
* System.Web.UI.WebControls.BaseDataBoundControl
* System.Web.UI.WebControls.DataBoundControl
* System.Web.UI.WebControls.CompositeDataBoundControl
* Telerik.Web.UI.RadCompositeDataBoundControl : IControl, IControlResolver, IFeatureGroup, IPostBackDataHandler, IScriptControl, ISkinnableControl
* Telerik.Web.UI.RadTreeList : IPostBackEventHandler

## Properties

###  AccessKey `String`

Gets or sets the access key that allows you to quickly navigate to the
            Web server control.

###  AllowLoadOnDemand `Boolean`

Enables TreeListItem's child items to be loaded on demand.

###  AllowMultiColumnSorting `Boolean`

Gets or sets the value indicating wheather more than one column can be sorted in a
                single RadTreeList. The order is the same as the sequence of
                expressions in .

###  AllowMultiItemEdit `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether multiple items can be simultaneously edited in .
            Default value is false.

###  AllowMultiItemSelection `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether you will be able to select multiple items in Telerik RadTreeList. 
            By default this property is set to false.

###  AllowNaturalSort `Boolean`

Gets or sets the value indicated whether the no-sort state when changing sort
            order will be allowed.

###  AllowPaging `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether the automatic paging feature is
            enabled.

###  AllowRecursiveDelete `Boolean`

Enables recursive delete.

###  AllowRecursiveSelection `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether child items will be selected recursively when a RadTreeList item is selected.
            Setting this property to true automatically enables MultiItemSelection in RadTreeList. Default value is false.

###  AllowSorting `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether the sorting feature is enabled.

###  AllowStableSort `Boolean`

Allow RadTreeList equal items not to be reordered when sorting.
            Enables sorting result consistancy between 3.5, 4.0, 4.5 Framework

###  AlternatingItemStyle `TreeListTableItemStyle`

Gets a reference to the  object that allows
                you to set the appearance of the alternating items in a Telerik RadTreeList
                control.

###  AutoGenerateColumns `Boolean`

Enable/Disable auto genrated columns

###  AutoGeneratedColumns `TreeListColumn[]`

Get an array of automatically generated columns. This array is available when
                 is set to true.

###  BackColor `Color`

Gets or sets the background color of the Web server control.

###  BorderColor `Color`

Gets or sets the border color of the Web control.

###  BorderStyle `BorderStyle`

Gets or sets the border style of the Web server control.

###  BorderWidth `Unit`

Gets or sets the border width of the Web server control.

###  Caption `String`

Gets or sets a string that specifies a brief description of a
                RadTreeList.
                Related to Telerik RadTreeList accessibility compliance.

###  ClientDataKeyNames `String[]`

Gets or sets an array of data-field names that will be used to
            populate the
             collection, when the 
            control is databinding. This collection can later be accessed on the client,
            to get the key value(s).

###  ClientDataKeyValues `TreeListDataKeyArray`

Gets a collection of ClientDataKeyName objects that represent the parent data key value of the corresponding item specified with its item index and the client data key name (case-sensitive!). The key name should be one of the specified in the ClientDataKeyNames array.

###  ClientExpandedIndexes `TreeListExpandedIndexesCollection`

Gets a collection containing the indexes of all rendered items which will be expanded on the client.

###  ClientIDMode `ClientIDMode`

This property is overridden in order to support controls which implement INamingContainer.
            The default value is changed to "AutoID".

###  ClientSettings `TreeListClientSettings`

Gets a reference to the 
             object that allows
            you to set the properties of the client-side behavior and
            appearance in a Telerik  control.

###  Columns `TreeListColumnsCollection`

Gets a TreeListColumnCollection of all columns in RadTreeList.

###  CommandItemDisplay `TreeListCommandItemDisplay`

Determines the position where the command item will be displayed in the control. Supported in Lightweight and Mobile modes only.
            Default value is None in Lightweight. In Mobile, the default value will be Top if either AllowColumnHide or AllowColumnReorder are enabled. Otherwise none.

###  CommandItemSettings `TreeListCommandItemSettings`

Provides access to the configuration of the command item. Available in Lightweight render mode only.

###  CommandItemStyle `TreeListCommandItemStyle`

Gets a reference to the TreeListCommandItemStyle object that allows you to
            set the appearance of the command item in a Telerik RadTreeList control.

###  CssClass `String`

Gets or sets the Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) class rendered by the Web
            server control on the client.

###  CssClassFormatString `String`

The CssClass property will now be used instead of the former Skin 
            and will be modified in AddAttributesToRender()

###  Culture `CultureInfo`

Gets or sets a value of type CultureInfo representing the current culture of the control.

###  CurrentPageIndex `Int32`

Gets or sets a value indicating the index of the currently active page in case
            paging is enabled ( is
            true).

###  CustomPageSize `Nullable`1`

Stores a custom PageSize value if such is set when page mode is NextPrevAndNumeric

###  DataKeyNames `String[]`

Gets or sets an array of data-field names that will be used to
            populate the
             collection, when the 
            control is databinding.

###  DataKeyValues `TreeListDataKeyArray`

Gets a collection of DataKeyValue objects that represent the data key value of the corresponding item specified with its item index and the data key name (case-sensitive!). The data key name should be one of the specified in the DataKeyNames array.

###  DataMember `String`

Gets or sets the name of the list of data that the data-bound control
            binds to, in cases where the data source contains more than one distinct list
            of data items.

###  DataSource `Object`

Gets or sets the object from which the data-bound control retrieves
            its list of data items.

###  DataSourceID `Object`

Gets or sets the ID of the control from which the data-bound control
            retrieves its list of data items.

###  DeleteMethod `String`

Gets or sets the name of the method to call in order to delete data

###  DetailTemplate `ITemplate`

Gets or sets the ItemTemplate, which is rendered with each tree list item.

###  Dir `TreeListTextDirection`

Gets or sets the text direction. This property is related to Telerik RadTreeList support
            for Right-To-Left lanugages. It has two possible vales defined by
             enumeration:LTR - left-to-right textRTL - right-to-left text

###  EditFormSettings `TreeListEditFormSettings`

Contains various data editing related properties.

###  EditIndexes `TreeListEditIndexesCollection`

Gets a collection containing the indexes of all items which are currently in edit mode.

###  EditItems `TreeListEditItemCollection`

Gets a collection of currently edited  instances.

###  EditItemStyle `TreeListTableItemStyle`

Gets a reference to the  object that allows
                you to set the appearance of the edit item in a Telerik RadTreeList
                control.

###  EditMode `TreeListEditMode`

Gets or sets the editing mode for RadTreeList.

###  EnableAjaxSkinRendering `String`

Gets or sets the value, indicating whether to render the skin CSS files during Ajax requests

#### Remarks
If EnableAjaxSkinRendering is set to false you will have to register the needed control base CSS file by hand when adding/showing the control with Ajax.

###  EnableAriaSupport `Boolean`

When set to true enables support for WAI-ARIA

###  Enabled `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether the Web server control is enabled.

###  EnableEmbeddedBaseStylesheet `Boolean`

Gets or sets the value, indicating whether to render the link to the embedded base stylesheet of the control or not.

#### Remarks
If EnableEmbeddedBaseStylesheet is set to false you will have to register the needed control base CSS file by hand.

###  EnableEmbeddedScripts `Boolean`

Gets or sets the value, indicating whether to render script references to the embedded scripts or not.

#### Remarks
If EnableEmbeddedScripts is set to false you will have to register the needed Scripts files by hand.

###  EnableEmbeddedSkins `String`

Gets or sets the value, indicating whether to render links to the embedded skins or not.

#### Remarks
If EnableEmbeddedSkins is set to false you will have to register the needed CSS files by hand.

###  EnableNoRecordsTemplate `ITemplate`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether RadTreeList will show
                NoRecordsTemplate if there is no items to display.

###  EnableRippleEffect `Boolean`

Returns true if ripple effect should be added

###  EnableTheming `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether themes apply to this control.

###  EnableViewState `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether the server control persists
            its view state, and the view state of any child controls it contains, to the
            requesting client.

###  ExpandCollapseColumnWidth `Unit`

Gets or sets a value indicating the width of the RadTreeList's ExpandCollapse column.

###  ExpandCollapseMode `TreeListExpandCollapseMode`

Gets or sets the expand / collapse mode for the RadTreeList items.

###  ExpandedIndexes `TreeListExpandedIndexesCollection`

Gets a collection containing the indexes of all rendered items which are currently expanded.

###  ExportSettings `TreeListExportSettings`

Returns a reference to the  object that contains export-specific settings.

###  Font `FontInfo`

Gets the font properties associated with the Web server control.

###  FooterItemStyle `TreeListTableItemStyle`

Gets a reference to the  object that allows
                you to set the appearance of the footer item in a Telerik RadTreeList
                control.

###  ForeColor `Color`

Gets or sets the foreground color (typically the color of the text)
            of the Web server control.

###  GridLines `TreeListGridLines`

Gets or sets value indicating whether borders will be displayed when the RadTreeList is rendered.

###  HeaderStyle `TreeListTableItemStyle`

Gets a reference to the  object that allows
                you to set the appearance of the header item in a Telerik RadTreeList
                control.

###  Height `Unit`

Gets or sets the height of the Web server control.

###  HideExpandCollapseButtonIfNoChildren `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether the expand/collapse image of the treelist item should be visible when it does not have child items.

###  InsertIndexes `TreeListEditIndexesCollection`

Gets a collection containing the indexes of all items which are currently being inserted.

###  InsertItems `TreeListEditItemCollection`

Gets a collection of currently inserted  instances.

###  InsertMethod `String`

Gets or sets the name of the method to call in order to insert data

###  IsExporting `Boolean`

Determines whether the control is currently exporting a file

###  IsItemInserted `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value indicating whether a root item is inserted in .
            Setting this property to true will show the root insert item if not already shown.

###  IsSkinSet `String`

For internal use.

###  Items `TreeListDataItemCollection`

Gets a collection of all TreeListDataItem objects in the RadTreeList. These are only the items currently visible in the control.

###  ItemStyle `TreeListTableItemStyle`

Gets a reference to the  object that allows
                you to set the appearance of a normal item in a Telerik RadTreeList
                control.

###  LocalizationPath `TreeListLocalizationStrings`

Gets or sets a value indicating where RadTreeList will look for its .resx localization file.
            By default this file should be in the App_GlobalResources folder. However, if you cannot put
            the resource file in the default location or .resx files compilation is disabled for some reason 
            (e.g. in a DotNetNuke environment), this property should be set to the location of the resource file.

#### Remarks
If specified, the LocalizationPath
            property will allow you to load the grid localization file from any location in the web application.

###  NoRecordsTemplate `ITemplate`

Template that will be displayed if there are no records in the DataSource assigned

###  NoRecordsText `String`

Gets or sets the text that will be displayed in there is no
                NoRecordsTemplate defined and no records in the
                RadTreeList.

###  PageCount `Int32`

Gets the number of pages required to display the records of the data
            source in a control.

###  PagerStyle `TreeListPagerStyle`

Gets a reference to the TreeListPagerStyle object that allows you to
            set the appearance of the pager item in a Telerik RadTreeList control.

###  PagerTemplate `ITemplate`

Gets or sets the custom content for the pager item in a RadTreeList control.

###  PageSize `Int32`

Specify the maximum number of items that would appear in a page,
             when paging is enabled by  property.
             Default value is 10.

###  ParentDataKeyNames `String[]`

Gets or sets an array of data-field names that will be used to
            populate the
             collection, when the 
            control is databinding.

###  ParentDataKeyValues `TreeListDataKeyArray`

Gets a collection of ParentDataKeyValue objects that represent the parent data key value of the corresponding item specified with its item index and the parent data key name (case-sensitive!). The key name should be one of the specified in the ParentDataKeyNames array.

###  PersistAutoGenerateColumnsStateOnRebind `Boolean`

Enable/Disable persisting of the columns settings for the automatically generated columns during rebind(paging, sorting, expand/collapse).
            When set to TRUE, the settings like Colums width and HeaderStyle for each column will be persisted.
            When set to FALSE, the settings applied prior the DataBind, will be loosed. 
            If the TreeList is bound to different set of data that contains different columns, the property should be set to FALSE(the default value).
            Set the property to TRUE, when you need to persist the column width during operations like Paging and Sorting.
            The AutoGeneratedColumnCreated event will be fired in both cases, so you can override the settings if needed.

###  RegisterWithScriptManager `Boolean`

Gets or sets the value, indicating whether to register with the ScriptManager control on the page.

#### Remarks
If RegisterWithScriptManager is set to false the control can be rendered on the page using Web Services or normal callback requests/page methods.

###  RenderColumns `TreeListColumn[]`

Returns a collection of all TreeListColumns which will be rendered in the control, including auto-generated ones

###  RenderMode `RenderMode`

Specifies the rendering mode of the control. Setting the mode to Lightweight will yield
            HTML 5/CSS 3 html and css.

#### Remarks
Lightweight rendering mode might change the outlook of the component in some older browsers
            that don't support CSS3/HTML5.

###  ResolvedRenderMode `RenderMode`

Returns resolved RenderMode should the original value was Auto

###  RuntimeSkin `String`

Gets the real skin name for the control user interface. If Skin is not set, returns
            "Default", otherwise returns Skin.

###  SelectedIndexes `TreeListSelectedIndexesCollection`

Gets a collection containing the indexes of all the selected items in the RadTreeList.

###  SelectedItems `TreeListDataItemCollection`

Gets a collection of the currently selected
            RadTreeListDataItem

###  SelectedItemStyle `TreeListTableItemStyle`

Gets a reference to the  object that allows
                you to set the appearance of the selected item in a Telerik RadTreeList
                control.

###  ShowFooter `Boolean`

Gets or set a value indicating whether the footer item of the TreeList will be
            shown.

#### Remarks
Setting this property will affect all TreeList tables, unless they specify otherwise
            explicitly.

###  ShowOuterBorders `Boolean`

Gets or sets value indicating whether the control will show outer borders. The default value is true.

###  ShowTreeLines `Boolean`

Gets or sets value indicating whether the control will show outer tree lines. The default value is true.

###  Skin `String`

Gets or sets a string value representing the name of the skin applied to the control

###  Skin `String`

Gets or sets the skin name for the control user interface.

#### Remarks
If this property is not set, the control will render using the skin named "Default".
            If EnableEmbeddedSkins is set to false, the control will not render skin.

###  SkinID `String`

Gets or sets the skin to apply to the control.

###  SortExpressions `TreeListSortExpressionCollection`

Gets a collection of sort expressions for

###  SortingSettings `TreeListSortingSettings`

Gets a reference to the  object that
                    allows you to set the properties of the sorting operation in a
                    Telerik RadTreeList control.

###  Summary `String`

Gets or sets the 'summary' attribute for the 
            RadTreeList.

#### Remarks
This attribute provides a summary of the table's purpose and structure for user
            agents rendering to non-visual media such as speech and Braille. This property is a
            part of Telerik RadTreeList accessibility features.

###  TabIndex `Int16`

Gets or sets the tab index of the Web server control.

###  ToolTip `String`

Gets or sets the text displayed when the mouse pointer hovers over the
            Web server control.

###  UpdateMethod `String`

Gets or sets the name of the method to call in order to update data

###  ValidationSettings `TreeListValidationSettings`

Contains validation settings for .

###  Visible `Boolean`

Gets or sets a value that indicates whether a server control is rendered
            as UI on the page.

###  Width `Unit`

Gets or sets the width of the Web server control.

## Methods

###  ApplyChildSelectionRecursive

Select or deselect all child items in all levels

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ApplyConditionalRendering

Use this from RenderContents of the inheritor

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ApplyParentSelectionRecursive

Select or deselect parent items in all levels

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ApplyRecursiveSelection

Recursively selects or deselects all child items of a RadTreeList item specified by its hierarchical index.
            Updates the selected state of all the parent items of the specified item to reflect the recursive selection.

#### Parameters

#### item `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListDataItem`

The RadTreeListDataItem instance

#### selected `System.Boolean`

The selected state of the item

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ApplyRecursiveSelection

Recursively selects or deselects all child items of a RadTreeList item specified by its hierarchical index.
            Updates the selected state of all the parent items of the specified item to reflect the recursive selection.

#### Parameters

#### hierarchyIndex `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListHierarchyIndex`

The hierarchical index of a RadTreeListDataItem

#### selected `System.Boolean`

The selected state of the item

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ClearSelectedItems

Removes all selected items that belong to  instance.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  CollapseAllItems

Collapses all items.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ControlPreRender

Code moved into this method from OnPreRender to make sure it executed when the framework skips OnPreRender() for some reason

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  CreateDataSourceSelectArguments

Creates a default 
             object used
            by the data-bound control if no arguments are specified.

#### Returns

`System.Web.UI.DataSourceSelectArguments` A 
            initialized to 
            .

###  DataBind

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  DeselectAllItems

Deselects all RadTreeList items

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ExpandAllItems

Expands all items.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ExpandItemToLevel

Expands the specified TreeListDataItem to the specified level.

#### Parameters

#### item `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListDataItem`

The TreeListDataItem to expand

#### level `System.Int32`

The nested level to expand to

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ExpandToLevel

Expands all RadTreeList items to the specified level.

#### Parameters

#### level `System.Int32`

The nested level to expand to

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ExportToExcel

Exports RadTreeList content to Excel format

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ExportToPdf

Exports RadTreeList content to PDF format

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ExportToWord

Exports RadTreeList content to Word format

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ExtractDataKeyValue

#### Returns

`System.Object` 

###  ExtractValuesFromItem

The passed  object (like  for example) will be filled with the
                names/values of the corresponding 's bound values and data-key values if included.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  FindItemByKeyValue

Finds and returns an item with given key and value. This method supports both key and parent key parameters. If there are more than one items with the same value, this routine will return the first one.

#### Parameters

#### keyName `System.String`

DataKeyName or ParentDataKeyName parameter

#### keyValue `System.Object`

Value of the DataKeyName/ParentDataKeyName parameter

#### Returns

`Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListDataItem` Returns an item matching the supplied key/value parameters

###  GetAllItemsSelected

Gets a value indicating whether all items are selected in RadTreeList. When recursive
            selection is enabled, returns true if all items in all levels are selected. If recursive
            selection is disabled, returns true if items in the current visible page are selected.
            Otherwise returns false.

#### Returns

`System.Boolean` 

###  GetColumn

Returns a  based on its .
            Throws ArgumentException if the specified column is not found.

#### Returns

`Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListColumn` 

###  GetColumnSafe

Returns a  based on its .
            Return null if the specified column is not found.

#### Returns

`Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListColumn` 

###  GetEmbeddedSkinNames

Returns the names of all embedded skins. Used by Telerik.Web.Examples.

#### Returns

`System.Collections.Generic.List`1` 

###  GetItems

Returns a collection of  objects based on their
                 .

#### Parameters

#### includeItemTypes `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListItemType`

The , which will be used as a criteria for
            the collection.

#### Returns

`Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListItem[]` A s collection of objects based on their
                .

###  GetMaximumNestedLevel

Returns the Maximum Nested Level.

#### Returns

`System.Int32` 

###  InsertChildItem

Inserts a new item as a child item of the specified  instance.

#### Parameters

#### parentItem `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListDataItem`

The  instance for which a child item is to be inserted.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  InsertChildItem

Inserts a new item as a child item of the specified  instance.
            The insert item will be databound to the specified object.

#### Parameters

#### parentItem `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListDataItem`

The  instance for which a child item is to be inserted.

#### newDataItem `System.Object`

The object that will be passed as data context to the insert item.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  InsertItem

Inserts a new root level item.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  InsertItem

Inserts a new root level item. The insert form will be 
            databound to the specified data item object.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  LoadClientState

Loads the client state data

#### Parameters

#### clientState `System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary{System.String,System.Object}`

#### Returns

`System.Boolean` 

###  LoadControlState

Restores control-state information from a previous page request that
            was saved by the 
             method.

#### Parameters

#### savedState `System.Object`

An  that
            represents the control state to be restored.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  LoadPostData

Executed when post data is loaded from the request

#### Parameters

#### postDataKey `System.String`

#### postCollection `System.Collections.Specialized.NameValueCollection`

#### Returns

`System.Boolean` 

###  OnAutoGeneratedColumnCreated

Raises  event

#### Parameters

#### e `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListAutoGeneratedColumnCreatedEventArgs`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  OnChildItemsDataBind

Raises  event

#### Parameters

#### e `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListChildItemsDataBindEventArgs`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  OnCreateCustomColumn

Raises  event

#### Parameters

#### e `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListCreateCustomColumnEventArgs`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  OnExporting

Raises the TreeList  event

#### Parameters

#### e `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListExportingEventArgs`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  OnInfrastructureExporting

Raises the TreeList  event

#### Parameters

#### e `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListInfrastructureExportingEventArgs`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  OnInit

Handles the  event.

#### Parameters

#### e `System.EventArgs`

An  object that contains the event data.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  OnItemCommand

Raises  event

#### Parameters

#### e `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListCommandEventArgs`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  OnItemDeleted

Raises the  event.

#### Parameters

#### e `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListDeletedEventArgs`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  OnItemDrop

Raises the  event

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  OnItemUpdated

Raises the  event.

#### Parameters

#### e `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListUpdatedEventArgs`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  OnLoad

Handles the  event.

#### Parameters

#### e `System.EventArgs`

An  object that
            contains event data.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  OnNeedDataSource

Raises  event

#### Parameters

#### e `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListNeedDataSourceEventArgs`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  OnPdfExporting

Raises the TreeList  event

#### Parameters

#### e `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListPdfExportingEventArgs`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  OnSelectedIndexChanged

Raises the  event.

#### Parameters

#### e `System.EventArgs`

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  PerformDelete

Perform asynchronous delete operation, using the 
             API the Rebinds the grid. Please
            make sure you have specified the correct  for the 
            . When the asynchronous operation calls
            back,  will fire 
             event.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  PerformDelete

Perform delete operation, using the 
            API. Please make sure you have specified the correct 
             for the .

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  PerformInsert

Performs asynchronous insert operation, using the  API, then
            Rebinds. When the asynchronous operation calls back,  will fire
             event.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  PerformInsert

Performs asynchronous insert operation, using the  API, then
            Rebinds. When the asynchronous operation calls back,  will fire
             event.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  PerformUpdate

Perform asynchronous update operation, using the  control API and the
                Rebind method. Please, make sure you have specified the correct
                DataKeyNames for the . When the
                asynchronous operation calls back,  will fire
                 event.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  PerformUpdate

Perform asynchronous update operation, using the 
                control API. Please make sure you have specified the correct 
                DataKeyNames for the
                . When the asynchronous operation calls
                back,  will fire
                 event. The boolean
                property defines if  will  after
                the update.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  PopulateDataKeys

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  RaisePostDataChangedEvent

Executed when post data changes should invoke a changed event

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  Rebind

Forces RadTreeList to rebind to its assigned datasource.

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  RegisterCssReferences

Registers the CSS references

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  RegisterScriptControl

Registers the control with the ScriptManager

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ReorderColumns

Reorder columns appearance position using the unique names of the two
            columns.

#### Parameters

#### columnName1 `System.String`

first column unique name

#### columnName2 `System.String`

second column unique name

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ReorderColumns

Reorders the position of the two columns.

#### Parameters

#### column1 `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListColumn`

first column

#### column2 `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListColumn`

second column

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  ReorderColumns

Reorders columns appearance position using order indexes of the two columns.

#### Parameters

#### orderIndex1 `System.Int32`

first column order index

#### orderIndex2 `System.Int32`

second column order index

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  SaveClientState

Saves the client state data

#### Returns

`System.String` 

###  SaveControlState

Saves any  control state changes that have
            occurred since the time the page was posted back to the server.

#### Returns

`System.Object` Returns the 's current state. If there is
            no state associated with the control, this method returns null.

###  SelectAllItems

Selects all RadTreeList items

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  SetItemSelectedIfExists

Sets the Selected property of a tree list item if the item exists. If not, only
            adds to or removes the item index from the SelectedIndexes collection

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  SwapColumns

Swaps columns appearance position using the unique names of the two
            columns.

#### Parameters

#### columnName1 `System.String`

first column unique name

#### columnName2 `System.String`

second column unique name

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  SwapColumns

Swaps the position of the two columns.

#### Parameters

#### column1 `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListColumn`

first column

#### column2 `Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListColumn`

second column

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

###  SwapColumns

Swaps columns appearance position using order indexes of the two columns.

#### Parameters

#### orderIndex1 `System.Int32`

first column order index

#### orderIndex2 `System.Int32`

second column order index

#### Returns

`System.Void` 

