---
title: Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListEditFormSettings
page_title: Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListEditFormSettings
description: Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListEditFormSettings
---

# Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListEditFormSettings

A class representing the settings of the Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListEditFormItem .

## Inheritance Hierarchy

* System.Object
* Telerik.Web.StateManager : IMarkableStateManager, IStateManager
* Telerik.Web.UI.TreeListEditFormSettings

## Properties

###  AutoGeneratedColumnEditorsTableWrapperCaption `String`

The caption for the table which holds all cells created from the grid column editors .

###  AutoGeneratedColumnEditorsTableWrapperSummary `String`

The summary attribute for the table which holds all cells created from the grid column editors .

###  CaptionDataField `String`

Gets or sets the DataField from 's data source that will
            be used with the

###  CaptionFormatString `String`

Gets or sets the format of the caption text that will be shown on top of  edit form 
            items in . If this property is empty, no caption will be shown.

###  ColumnsCount `Int32`

Number of vertical columns to split all edit fields on the form when it is autogenerated.
            Each TreeListEditableColumn has a  
            to choose the column where the editor would appear.

###  EditColumn `TreeListEditCommandColumn`

Set properties of the update-cancel buttons column that appears in an edit form

###  EditFormType `TreeListEditFormType`

Specifies the type of the edit form.

###  FormCaptionStyle `TableItemStyle`

Style of the edit form table row that shows the caption.

###  FormMainTableCaption `String`

The caption for the table that wraps the whole .

###  FormMainTableStyle `TableStyle`

Style of the edit form's main table.

###  FormMainTableSummary `String`

The summary attribute for the table that wraps the whole .

###  FormStyle `Style`

Style of the edit form container in .

###  FormTableAlternatingItemStyle `TableItemStyle`

Style of the alternating rows in the edit form table.

###  FormTableButtonRowStyle `TableItemStyle`

Style of the edit form table's footer row, where the Update/Insert/Cancel buttons appear.

###  FormTableItemStyle `TableItemStyle`

Style of the edit form table rows.

###  FormTableStyle `TableStyle`

Style of the edit form's table element in

###  FormTemplate `ITemplate`

Specifies the template that will be instantiated as the edit form in ,
            if RadTreeList.EditFormType is set to TreeListEditFormType.Template.

###  InsertCaption `String`

Gets or sets the caption text that will be shown on top of insert forms in
            . If this property is empty, no caption will be shown.

###  PopUpSettings `TreeListPopUpSettings`

Gets a reference to  class providing properties
                related to PopUp EditForm.

###  UserControlPath `String`

Specifies the path to the  that will be instantiated
            as the edit form in , if RadTreeList.EditFormType is
            set to TreeListEditFormType.WebUserControl. The path should be in the same 
            format as provided to the Page.LoadControl method.

