controls/ziplibrary/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Overview | RadZipLibrary for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Overview
slug: radziplibrary-overview
tags: overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Overview



{% if site.site_name == 'Silverlight' %}![ziplibrary sl icon](images/ziplibrary_sl_icon.png){% endif %}{% if site.site_name == 'AJAX' %}![ziplibrary wpf icon](images/ziplibrary_wpf_icon.png){% endif %}

## 

Have you ever wondered how to increase the responsiveness of your applications by compressing the data that you send over the internet? With the new __Zip Library__ you can compress data like images, docx or pdf files and send them over the wire. Thus, you will achieve fast and secure transactions. 

![Zip Library Overview 01](images/ZipLibrary_Overview_01.png)

This is a list with short descriptions of the top-of-the-line features of Telerik's __Zip Library__ control:
        

* __Easy to use API__: The __Zip Library__ exposes flexible and easy API to provide you with full control over the compressed data.
            

* __Load or create ZIP files__: You can load data from existing __ZIP__ files, create new ones and edit ZIPs that can be used by other applications. You can also create ZIP files in memory or add data to ZIP file from stream.
            

* __Store your data in the Isolated Storage__: You can store the compressed data in the Isolated Storage.
            

* __Support for large files__: The __Zip Library__ works seamlessly with large files.
            

* __Support for encryption__: You can protect your ZIP file with password for more security.

Commit message:

Document Processing libraries redirected to the new documentation site. Fixed broken slugs after removing the related articles.

controls/ziplibrary/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Overview | RadZipLibrary for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Overview
slug: radziplibrary-overview
tags: overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Overview



>**RadZipLibrary** is part of the **Telerik Document Processing** libraries. The full documentation for this component is available at [http://docs.telerik.com/devtools/document-processing/libraries/radziplibrary](http://docs.telerik.com/devtools/document-processing/libraries/radziplibrary/overview).

## 

Have you ever wondered how to increase the responsiveness of your applications by compressing the data that you send over the internet? With the new __Zip Library__ you can compress data like images, docx or pdf files and send them over the wire. Thus, you will achieve fast and secure transactions. 

This is a list with short descriptions of the top-of-the-line features of Telerik's __Zip Library__ control:
        

* __Easy to use API__: The __Zip Library__ exposes flexible and easy API to provide you with full control over the compressed data.
            

* __Load or create ZIP files__: You can load data from existing __ZIP__ files, create new ones and edit ZIPs that can be used by other applications. You can also create ZIP files in memory or add data to ZIP file from stream.
            

* __Store your data in the Isolated Storage__: You can store the compressed data in the Isolated Storage.
            

* __Support for large files__: The __Zip Library__ works seamlessly with large files.
            

* __Support for encryption__: You can protect your ZIP file with password for more security.
