controls/grid/functionality/scrolling/virtual-scrolling.md, before:

---
title: Virtual Scrolling
page_title: Virtual Scrolling | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Virtual Scrolling
slug: grid/functionality/scrolling/virtual-scrolling
tags: virtual,scrolling
published: True
position: 4
---

# Virtual Scrolling



When working with large data sets, it is convenient to use the **RadGrid** paging mechanism. However, for really huge data sets, crawling through pages using only the grid pager may become a hard and boring task for users. For really huge data sets, **RadGrid** allows virtual scrolling.

## Virtual scroll bar

When scrolling with the virtual scroll bar, **RadGrid** can use either standard postbacks or AJAX requests (when AJAX callbacks are enabled using **RadAjaxManager**, **RadAjaxPanel**, or MS **UpdatePanel**). By using AJAX callbacks, the overall behavior is smooth, with no flicker.

![Virtual Paging/Scrolling](images/grd_VirtualPaging_markedup.png)

To enable virtual scrolling for browsing large record sets,

1. Set the **ClientSettings.Scrolling.AllowScroll** and **ClientSettings.Scrolling.EnableVirtualScrollPaging** properties to **True**.

2. Set the **AllowPaging** and **AllowCustomPaging** properties to **True**. Set the **VirtualItemCount** property to the total number of records in the data source.

3. Bind the grid using the **NeedDataSource** event, and in the event handler, use the **CurrentPageIndex** property to determine which subset of the records to fetch.



````ASP.NET
<telerik:RadAjaxManager ID="RadAjaxManager1" runat="server">
  <AjaxSettings>
    <telerik:AjaxSetting AjaxControlID="RadGrid1">
      <UpdatedControls>
        <telerik:AjaxUpdatedControl ControlID="RadGrid1" LoadingPanelID="RadAjaxLoadingPanel1" />
      </UpdatedControls>
    </telerik:AjaxSetting>
  </AjaxSettings>
</telerik:RadAjaxManager>
<telerik:RadAjaxLoadingPanel ID="RadAjaxLoadingPanel1" runat="server" Height="75px"
  Width="75px" Transparency="25">
  <img alt="Loading..." src='<%= RadAjaxLoadingPanel.GetWebResourceUrl(Page, "Telerik.Web.UI.Skins.Default.Ajax.loading.gif") %>'
    style="border: 0;" /></telerik:RadAjaxLoadingPanel>
<telerik:RadGrid RenderMode="Lightweight" ID="RadGrid1" runat="server" Width="97%" Skin="Silk" AllowSorting="True"
  AllowPaging="True" PageSize="14" AllowCustomPaging="true" VirtualItemCount="100000"
  OnNeedDataSource="RadGrid1_NeedDataSource">
  <PagerStyle Mode="NumericPages" />
  <MasterTableView TableLayout="Fixed" />
  <ClientSettings>
    <Scrolling AllowScroll="True" EnableVirtualScrollPaging="True" UseStaticHeaders="True"
      SaveScrollPosition="True" />
  </ClientSettings>
</telerik:RadGrid>
````
````C#
protected void RadGrid1_NeedDataSource(object source, Telerik.Web.UI.GridNeedDataSourceEventArgs e)
{
    RadGrid1.DataSource = GetDataTable("SELECT [OrderID], [ProductID], [Quantity], [Discount] FROM [LargeOrderDetails] WHERE ID BETWEEN " + 
        RadGrid1.CurrentPageIndex * RadGrid1.PageSize + " AND " + ((RadGrid1.CurrentPageIndex + 1) * RadGrid1.PageSize));
}
````
````VB
Protected Sub RadGrid1_NeedDataSource(ByVal source As Object, ByVal e As GridNeedDataSourceEventArgs)
    RadGrid1.DataSource = GetDataTable("SELECT [OrderID], [ProductID], [Quantity], [Discount] FROM [LargeOrderDetails] WHERE ID BETWEEN " &
                                       RadGrid1.CurrentPageIndex * RadGrid1.PageSize & " AND " & ((RadGrid1.CurrentPageIndex + 1) * RadGrid1.PageSize))
End Sub
````


>note NOTE: RadGrid's virtual scrolling / paging feature does not support rows of variable height. All rows in all pages should have the same height for the scroll position to be properly calculated.
>


## Fetching additional records when the scroll bar reaches its endpoint

Another approach is to trigger an AJAX request to increase the page size when the user drags the scroll bar to the bottom. This is attained with a few lines of javascript and server-side code. Additional data is supplied as long as the rendered rows are less than the entire source record count:
![Virtual scrolling](images/GoogleStyleScroll.PNG)

The following steps describe how to achieve this effect:

1. Add a **RadGrid** control to your Web page.
	1. Bind it to a data source.
	2. Enable **Paging** in the grid, but set the **PagerStyle.Visible** property to **False** so that the pager does not show.
	3. Enable Scrolling in the grid. Set the **ClientSettings.Scrolling.ScrollHeight** sufficiently small so that the scroll bar appears when the grid first loads.
2. Add a **RadAjaxManager** and **RadAjaxLoadingPanel** to the Web page.
	1. Configure the **RadAjaxManager** so that it lets **RadGrid** initiate AJAX requests. Set **RadGrid** as the control to update in response to those requests, and set the **LoadingPanelID** property for those updates to the ID of the **RadAjaxLoadingPanel**.
	2. Add an **AjaxRequest** event handler to the **RadAjaxManager**. In the event handler, increase the **PageSize** property of the **RadGrid** and the call the grid's **Rebind** method. This increases the number of pages that the grid can display.
3. In the ASPX file, Add a **RadCodeBlock** with a javascript function (called "HandleScrolling" in the example below) to triggers an AJAX request when the grid's scroll bar is at the bottom. This AJAX request will cause the **AjaxRequest** event handler that you just added to execute and fetch more records.
4. Assign the javascript function as the event handler for the **OnScroll** client event of the grid.

````C#
<telerik:RadCodeBlock ID="RadCodeBlock1" runat="server">
  <script type="text/javascript">
    function HandleScrolling(e) {
      var grid = $find("<%=RadGrid1.ClientID %>");
      var scrollArea = document.getElementById("<%= RadGrid1.ClientID %>" + "_GridData");
      if (IsScrolledToBottom(scrollArea)) {
        var currentlyDisplayedRecords = grid.get_masterTableView().get_pageSize() * (grid.get_masterTableView().get_currentPageIndex() + 1);
        //if the visible items are less than the entire record count  
        //trigger an ajax request to increase them     
        if (currentlyDisplayedRecords < 100) {
          $find("<%= RadAjaxManager1.ClientID %>").ajaxRequest("LoadMoreRecords");
        }
      }
    }
    //calculate when the scroll bar is at the bottom   
    function IsScrolledToBottom(scrollArea) {
      var currentPosition = scrollArea.scrollTop + scrollArea.clientHeight; return currentPosition == scrollArea.scrollHeight;
    }  
  </script>
</telerik:RadCodeBlock>
<telerik:RadAjaxManager ID="RadAjaxManager1" runat="server" OnAjaxRequest="RadAjaxManager1_AjaxRequest">
  <AjaxSettings>
    <telerik:AjaxSetting AjaxControlID="RadGrid1">
      <UpdatedControls>
        <telerik:AjaxUpdatedControl ControlID="RadGrid1" LoadingPanelID="RadAjaxLoadingPanel1" />
      </UpdatedControls>
    </telerik:AjaxSetting>
  </AjaxSettings>
</telerik:RadAjaxManager>
<telerik:RadAjaxLoadingPanel ID="RadAjaxLoadingPanel1" runat="server" Height="75px"
  Width="75px" Transparency="25">
  <img alt="Loading..." src='<%= RadAjaxLoadingPanel.GetWebResourceUrl(Page, "Telerik.Web.UI.Skins.Default.Ajax.loading.gif") %>'
    style="border: 0;" />
</telerik:RadAjaxLoadingPanel>
<telerik:RadGrid RenderMode="Lightweight" ID="RadGrid1" runat="server" Skin="Silk" DataSourceID="SqlDataSource1"
  AllowSorting="True" AllowPaging="True" PageSize="15" Width="97%" GridLines="None">
  <PagerStyle Visible="False" />
  <MasterTableView Width="99%" TableLayout="Fixed" CommandItemDisplay="None" CurrentResetPageIndexAction="SetPageIndexToFirst"
    DataSourceID="AccessDataSource1" PageSize="15">
  </MasterTableView>
  <ClientSettings>
    <Scrolling AllowScroll="True" UseStaticHeaders="True" ScrollHeight="100px" />
    <ClientEvents OnScroll="HandleScrolling" />
  </ClientSettings>
</telerik:RadGrid>
<asp:SqlDataSource ID="SqlDataSource1" runat="server" ConnectionString="<%$ ConnectionStrings:NorthwindConnectionString %>"
          SelectCommand="SELECT * FROM [Customers]"></asp:SqlDataSource>
````





````C#
protected void RadAjaxManager1_AjaxRequest(object sender, AjaxRequestEventArgs e)
{
    RadGrid1.PageSize = 10 + RadGrid1.PageSize;
    RadGrid1.Rebind();
}	
````
````VB
Protected Sub RadAjaxManager1_AjaxRequest(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As Web.UI.AjaxRequestEventArgs)
    RadGrid1.PageSize = 10 + RadGrid1.PageSize
    RadGrid1.Rebind()
End Sub
````


For a live example demonstrating the techniques described above, see [Virtual scrolling and paging](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/Grid/Examples/Client/VirtualScrollPaging/DefaultCS.aspx).

Commit message:

docs(grid): recommend virtualization over the old virtual scrolling

controls/grid/functionality/scrolling/virtual-scrolling.md, after:

---
title: Virtual Scrolling
page_title: Virtual Scrolling | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Virtual Scrolling
slug: grid/functionality/scrolling/virtual-scrolling
tags: virtual,scrolling
published: True
position: 6
---

# Virtual Scrolling



When working with large data sets, it is convenient to use the **RadGrid** paging mechanism. However, for really huge data sets, crawling through pages using only the grid pager may become a hard and boring task for users. For really huge data sets, **RadGrid** allows virtual scrolling.

>tip If you need endless scrolling in your grid, we recommend that you use the newer [Virtualization]({%slug grid/functionality/scrolling/virtualization%}) feature.

## Virtual scroll bar

When scrolling with the virtual scroll bar, **RadGrid** can use either standard postbacks or AJAX requests (when AJAX callbacks are enabled using **RadAjaxManager**, **RadAjaxPanel**, or MS **UpdatePanel**). By using AJAX callbacks, the overall behavior is smooth, with no flicker.

![Virtual Paging/Scrolling](images/grd_VirtualPaging_markedup.png)

To enable virtual scrolling for browsing large record sets,

1. Set the **ClientSettings.Scrolling.AllowScroll** and **ClientSettings.Scrolling.EnableVirtualScrollPaging** properties to **True**.

2. Set the **AllowPaging** and **AllowCustomPaging** properties to **True**. Set the **VirtualItemCount** property to the total number of records in the data source.

3. Bind the grid using the **NeedDataSource** event, and in the event handler, use the **CurrentPageIndex** property to determine which subset of the records to fetch.



````ASP.NET
<telerik:RadAjaxManager ID="RadAjaxManager1" runat="server">
  <AjaxSettings>
    <telerik:AjaxSetting AjaxControlID="RadGrid1">
      <UpdatedControls>
        <telerik:AjaxUpdatedControl ControlID="RadGrid1" LoadingPanelID="RadAjaxLoadingPanel1" />
      </UpdatedControls>
    </telerik:AjaxSetting>
  </AjaxSettings>
</telerik:RadAjaxManager>
<telerik:RadAjaxLoadingPanel ID="RadAjaxLoadingPanel1" runat="server" Height="75px"
  Width="75px" Transparency="25">
  <img alt="Loading..." src='<%= RadAjaxLoadingPanel.GetWebResourceUrl(Page, "Telerik.Web.UI.Skins.Default.Ajax.loading.gif") %>'
    style="border: 0;" /></telerik:RadAjaxLoadingPanel>
<telerik:RadGrid RenderMode="Lightweight" ID="RadGrid1" runat="server" Width="97%" Skin="Silk" AllowSorting="True"
  AllowPaging="True" PageSize="14" AllowCustomPaging="true" VirtualItemCount="100000"
  OnNeedDataSource="RadGrid1_NeedDataSource">
  <PagerStyle Mode="NumericPages" />
  <MasterTableView TableLayout="Fixed" />
  <ClientSettings>
    <Scrolling AllowScroll="True" EnableVirtualScrollPaging="True" UseStaticHeaders="True"
      SaveScrollPosition="True" />
  </ClientSettings>
</telerik:RadGrid>
````
````C#
protected void RadGrid1_NeedDataSource(object source, Telerik.Web.UI.GridNeedDataSourceEventArgs e)
{
    RadGrid1.DataSource = GetDataTable("SELECT [OrderID], [ProductID], [Quantity], [Discount] FROM [LargeOrderDetails] WHERE ID BETWEEN " + 
        RadGrid1.CurrentPageIndex * RadGrid1.PageSize + " AND " + ((RadGrid1.CurrentPageIndex + 1) * RadGrid1.PageSize));
}
````
````VB
Protected Sub RadGrid1_NeedDataSource(ByVal source As Object, ByVal e As GridNeedDataSourceEventArgs)
    RadGrid1.DataSource = GetDataTable("SELECT [OrderID], [ProductID], [Quantity], [Discount] FROM [LargeOrderDetails] WHERE ID BETWEEN " &
                                       RadGrid1.CurrentPageIndex * RadGrid1.PageSize & " AND " & ((RadGrid1.CurrentPageIndex + 1) * RadGrid1.PageSize))
End Sub
````


>note NOTE: RadGrid's virtual scrolling / paging feature does not support rows of variable height. All rows in all pages should have the same height for the scroll position to be properly calculated.
>


## Fetching additional records when the scroll bar reaches its endpoint

Another approach is to trigger an AJAX request to increase the page size when the user drags the scroll bar to the bottom. This is attained with a few lines of javascript and server-side code. Additional data is supplied as long as the rendered rows are less than the entire source record count:
![Virtual scrolling](images/GoogleStyleScroll.PNG)

The following steps describe how to achieve this effect:

1. Add a **RadGrid** control to your Web page.
	1. Bind it to a data source.
	2. Enable **Paging** in the grid, but set the **PagerStyle.Visible** property to **False** so that the pager does not show.
	3. Enable Scrolling in the grid. Set the **ClientSettings.Scrolling.ScrollHeight** sufficiently small so that the scroll bar appears when the grid first loads.
2. Add a **RadAjaxManager** and **RadAjaxLoadingPanel** to the Web page.
	1. Configure the **RadAjaxManager** so that it lets **RadGrid** initiate AJAX requests. Set **RadGrid** as the control to update in response to those requests, and set the **LoadingPanelID** property for those updates to the ID of the **RadAjaxLoadingPanel**.
	2. Add an **AjaxRequest** event handler to the **RadAjaxManager**. In the event handler, increase the **PageSize** property of the **RadGrid** and the call the grid's **Rebind** method. This increases the number of pages that the grid can display.
3. In the ASPX file, Add a **RadCodeBlock** with a javascript function (called "HandleScrolling" in the example below) to triggers an AJAX request when the grid's scroll bar is at the bottom. This AJAX request will cause the **AjaxRequest** event handler that you just added to execute and fetch more records.
4. Assign the javascript function as the event handler for the **OnScroll** client event of the grid.

````C#
<telerik:RadCodeBlock ID="RadCodeBlock1" runat="server">
  <script type="text/javascript">
    function HandleScrolling(e) {
      var grid = $find("<%=RadGrid1.ClientID %>");
      var scrollArea = document.getElementById("<%= RadGrid1.ClientID %>" + "_GridData");
      if (IsScrolledToBottom(scrollArea)) {
        var currentlyDisplayedRecords = grid.get_masterTableView().get_pageSize() * (grid.get_masterTableView().get_currentPageIndex() + 1);
        //if the visible items are less than the entire record count  
        //trigger an ajax request to increase them     
        if (currentlyDisplayedRecords < 100) {
          $find("<%= RadAjaxManager1.ClientID %>").ajaxRequest("LoadMoreRecords");
        }
      }
    }
    //calculate when the scroll bar is at the bottom   
    function IsScrolledToBottom(scrollArea) {
      var currentPosition = scrollArea.scrollTop + scrollArea.clientHeight; return currentPosition == scrollArea.scrollHeight;
    }  
  </script>
</telerik:RadCodeBlock>
<telerik:RadAjaxManager ID="RadAjaxManager1" runat="server" OnAjaxRequest="RadAjaxManager1_AjaxRequest">
  <AjaxSettings>
    <telerik:AjaxSetting AjaxControlID="RadGrid1">
      <UpdatedControls>
        <telerik:AjaxUpdatedControl ControlID="RadGrid1" LoadingPanelID="RadAjaxLoadingPanel1" />
      </UpdatedControls>
    </telerik:AjaxSetting>
  </AjaxSettings>
</telerik:RadAjaxManager>
<telerik:RadAjaxLoadingPanel ID="RadAjaxLoadingPanel1" runat="server" Height="75px"
  Width="75px" Transparency="25">
  <img alt="Loading..." src='<%= RadAjaxLoadingPanel.GetWebResourceUrl(Page, "Telerik.Web.UI.Skins.Default.Ajax.loading.gif") %>'
    style="border: 0;" />
</telerik:RadAjaxLoadingPanel>
<telerik:RadGrid RenderMode="Lightweight" ID="RadGrid1" runat="server" Skin="Silk" DataSourceID="SqlDataSource1"
  AllowSorting="True" AllowPaging="True" PageSize="15" Width="97%" GridLines="None">
  <PagerStyle Visible="False" />
  <MasterTableView Width="99%" TableLayout="Fixed" CommandItemDisplay="None" CurrentResetPageIndexAction="SetPageIndexToFirst"
    DataSourceID="AccessDataSource1" PageSize="15">
  </MasterTableView>
  <ClientSettings>
    <Scrolling AllowScroll="True" UseStaticHeaders="True" ScrollHeight="100px" />
    <ClientEvents OnScroll="HandleScrolling" />
  </ClientSettings>
</telerik:RadGrid>
<asp:SqlDataSource ID="SqlDataSource1" runat="server" ConnectionString="<%$ ConnectionStrings:NorthwindConnectionString %>"
          SelectCommand="SELECT * FROM [Customers]"></asp:SqlDataSource>
````





````C#
protected void RadAjaxManager1_AjaxRequest(object sender, AjaxRequestEventArgs e)
{
    RadGrid1.PageSize = 10 + RadGrid1.PageSize;
    RadGrid1.Rebind();
}	
````
````VB
Protected Sub RadAjaxManager1_AjaxRequest(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As Web.UI.AjaxRequestEventArgs)
    RadGrid1.PageSize = 10 + RadGrid1.PageSize
    RadGrid1.Rebind()
End Sub
````
