controls/timepicker/server-side-programming/radtimepicker-object.md, before:

---
title: RadTimePicker Object
page_title: Server-Side Object | RadTimePicker for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: RadTimePicker Server-Side Object
slug: timepicker/server-side-programming/server-side-objects
tags: server-side,objects
published: True
position: 0
---

# RadTimePicker Object


The main classes for working with the **RadTimePicker** controls are:

* **RadTimePicker** is the main class for the time picker control. It provides several properties, methods, and events for customizing the control located at [Telerik.Web.UI.RadTimePicker](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/RadTimePicker).

* **RadDateInput** is the class for the input area of **RadTimePicker**. It handles the formatting and parsing of date and time strings, and has a number of its own properties, methods and events. **RadDateInput** is one of the standard **RadInput** controls and its server API is here [Telerik.Web.UI.RadDateInput](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/RadDateInput).

* **TimePopupButton** is the class for the popup button that displays the time view on **RadTimePicker**. It is exposed by the **TimePopupButton** property. You can see its properties, methods and events at [Telerik.Web.UI.TimePopupButton](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/TimePopupButton).

* **RadTimeView** is the class for the popup time view used by **RadTimePicker**. Its server API is listed at [Telerik.Web.UI.RadTimeView](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/RadTimeView).

Commit message:

docs(timepicker): link the autogenerated server API

controls/timepicker/server-side-programming/radtimepicker-object.md, after:

---
title: RadTimePicker Object
page_title: Server-Side Object | RadTimePicker for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: RadTimePicker Server-Side Object
slug: timepicker/server-side-programming/server-side-objects
tags: server-side,objects
published: True
position: 0
---

# RadTimePicker Object

For a detailed list with the server-side properties and methods of the control, see the [Server-Side API of the RadTimePicker class](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/RadTimePicker).

The main classes for working with the **RadTimePicker** controls are:

* **RadTimePicker** is the main class for the time picker control. It provides several properties, methods, and events for customizing the control located at [Telerik.Web.UI.RadTimePicker](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/RadTimePicker).

* **RadDateInput** is the class for the input area of **RadTimePicker**. It handles the formatting and parsing of date and time strings, and has a number of its own properties, methods and events. **RadDateInput** is one of the standard **RadInput** controls and its server API is here [Telerik.Web.UI.RadDateInput](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/RadDateInput).

* **TimePopupButton** is the class for the popup button that displays the time view on **RadTimePicker**. It is exposed by the **TimePopupButton** property. You can see its properties, methods and events at [Telerik.Web.UI.TimePopupButton](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/TimePopupButton).

* **RadTimeView** is the class for the popup time view used by **RadTimePicker**. Its server API is listed at [Telerik.Web.UI.RadTimeView](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/aspnet-ajax/api/server/Telerik.Web.UI/RadTimeView).
