controls/grid/server-side-programming/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Server-Side Programming Overview | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Overview
slug: grid/server-side-programming/overview
tags: overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Server-Side Programming Overview



## Classes and Properties

Following is a table of the most important properties you should be aware of when working with RadGrid.


|  **Property**  |  **Description**  |
| ------ | ------ |
| **RadGrid.MasterTableView** |The main grid table - in the general case, when there is no hierarchy, only **RadGrid.MasterTableView** is rendered. You can think of this table as if it is the grid itself. **MasterTableView** and generally all table-views in the hierarchy use the style, client behavior and other settings applied to **RadGrid** , unless explicitly specified otherwise.|
| **GridTableView.DetailTables** |This collection is used for defining the hierarchical structure of **RadGrid** .|
| **RadGrid.ClientSettings** |Set various client-side appearance and behavior options. See [RadGridTable client-side API]({%slug grid/client-side-programming/overview%}) for details.|
| **RadGrid.*Style** |Properties that control the visual appearance of **RadGrid** and all tables in the hierarchy.|
| **GridDataTable.*Style properties** |Properties that control the visual appearance of **GridDataTable** and all tables in the hierarchy.|
| **GridTableView.ColumnGroups** |A collection of type GridColumnGroupCollection which holds the multiheaders in the GridTableView|
| **GridTableView.GroupByExpressions** |Add or remove objects to this collection to set grouping programmatically.|
| **GridTableView.SortExpressions** |Add or remove objects to this collection to set sorting programmatically.|
| **GridTableView.Columns** , **GridTableView.AutoGeneratedColumns** , **GridTableView.RenderColumns** |Properties to access runtime columns. Columns are set by default in design mode. **AutoGeneratedColumns** - are automatically generated columns **RenderColumns** - all columns - columns+ AutoGenerated (if any) + structure columns - expand/collapse and group-splitters|

>note Instead of setting properties for each GridTableView, you can use RadGrid global properties for: PageSize, AllowSorting, AllowPaging, AllowCustomPaging, ShowFooter, ShowHeader, BackColor, BorderColor, PagerStyle. Thus they will be set for each table in the hierarchy, unless specified otherwise.
>


## Events

When working with Telerik RadGrid you will probably often use the following events (sorted by categories).

### Command events

* [CancelCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/cancelcommand %}) 
                                       
    Fired when the Cancel button is clicked for an item in the RadGrid control.

* [DeleteCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/deletecommand %})  
                                      
    Fired when the Delete button is clicked for an item in the RadGrid control.

* [EditCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/editcommand %})  
                                          
    Fired when the Edit button is clicked for an item in the RadGrid control.

* [UpdateCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/updatecommand %}) 
                                       
    Fired when the Update button is clicked for an item in the RadGrid control.

* [InsertCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/insertcommand %}) 
                                       
    Fired when the Insert button is clicked for an item in the RadGrid control.

* [ItemCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/itemcommand %}) 
                                           
    Fired when any button is clicked in the RadGrid control. All bubbled events from grid items fire RadGrid.ItemCommand . Those like - Edit, Delete, or Update command events can be used 

* [BatchEditCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/batcheditcommand %}) 
                                      
    Fired when saving the changes if the data is bound on the server and the EditMode of the Grid is set to Batch. 

* [SortCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/sortcommand %})

### Behavior 

* [ItemCreated]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/itemcreated %})  
                                       
    Fired on the server when an item in the RadGrid control is created.
 
* [ItemDataBound]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/itemdatabound %}) 
                                 
    Fired after an item is databound to the RadGrid control.
 
* [PageIndexChanged]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/pageindexchanged %})  
                                   
    Fired when one of the page selection elements is clicked.
 
* [PageSizeChanged]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/pagesizechanged %}) 
                                     
    Fired when the page size is changed through the advanced pager or manually in code
 
* [SelectedIndexChanged (inherited from GridBaseDataList )]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/selectedindexchanged %})
 
    Fired when a different item is selected in a data listing control between posts to the server.
 
* [ItemEvent]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/itemevent %}) 
                                            
    Marked for internal usage.
 
* [ColumnCreated]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/columncreated %}) 
                                            
    This event is fired after the creation of auto-generated columns.
 
* [ColumnCreating]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/columncreating %})  
                                      
    Fires before a custom column is created. You can handle the event to replace or modify the instance of the column that should be created and added into the collection of column in the 
 
* [GroupsChanging]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/groupschanging %}) 
                                      
    Fired when Telerik RadGrid tries to group its data (e.g. when a column header is dragged to the Group Panel).
 
* [CreateColumnEditor]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/createcolumneditor %}) 
                              
    Fired -after- the NeedDataSource event of the grid (which is raised right after the PageLoad event) and -before- any postback events for controls on the page/user control.
 
* [ColumnsReorder]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/columnsreorder %})  
                                     
    Fired when column reorder occurs (only when ClientSettings -> ReorderColumnsOnClient is set to false!)

### Data binding

* [DataBinding (inherited from Control)]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/databinding %}) 
                  
    Fired right before the server control binds to a data source. This event will fire only once, when RadGrid is initially binding.
 
* [DataBound (inherited from Control)]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/databound %}) 
                      
    Fired when the server control is bound to a data source.
 
* [NeedDataSource]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/needdatasource %}) 
                                 
    Fired when RadGrid needs a data source for rebinding.
 
* [DetailTableDataBind]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/detailtabledatabind %})
                                     
    Fired when a table from DetailTablesCollection binds to a data source.

### Automatic CRUD operations with Declarative DataSource controls

* [ItemDeleted]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/itemdeleted %}) 
                                            
    Fired when an automatic delete operation is executed.
 
* [ItemUpdated]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/itemupdated %}) 
                                           
    Fired when an automatic update operation is executed.
 
* [ItemInserted]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/iteminserted %})
                                                
    Fired when an automatic insert operation is executed.

### Row Drag&Drop

* [RowDrop]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/rowdrop %}) 
                                            
    Fired when drag and drop operation is triggered from the client

### Exporting

* [OnGridExporting]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/ongridexporting %})  
                                    
    Fired when RadGrid is exported to Excel/Word/Csv/Pdf before the resulting document is rendered on the client.
 
* [OnPdfExporting]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/onpdfexporting %})  
                        
    Fired when RadGrid is exported to Pdf before the resulting document is rendered on the client. Appropriate for customizing the grid table appearance in the .pdf document.
 
* [OnExcelExportCellFormatting]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/onexcelexportcellformatting %}) 
           
    Fired when RadGrid is exported to Excel before the resulting document is rendered on the client.
 
* [OnExcelMLExportStylesCreated]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/onexcelmlexportstylescreated %})  
            
    Fired when RadGrid is exported to native Excel before the OnExcelMLExportRowCreated event.
 
* [OnExcelMLExportRowCreated]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/onexcelmlexportrowcreated %})
                                  
    Fired when RadGrid is exported to native Excel before the resulting document is rendered on the client.

### Miscellanious

* [Disposed (inherited from Control)]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/disposed %}) 
                            
    Fired when a server control is released from the memory, which is the last stage of the server control lifecycle when an ASP.NET page is requested.
 
* [Init (inherited from Control)]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/init %}) 
                                
    Fired when the server control is initialized, which is the first step in its lifecycle.
 
* [Load (inherited from Control)]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/load %})
                            
    Fired when the server control is loaded into the RadGrid object.
 
* [PreRender (inherited from Control)]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/prerender %}) 
                         
    Fired when the server control is about to render to its containing Page object.

* Unload (inherited from Control)
                                 
    Fired when the server control is unloaded from the memory.

Commit message:

docs(grid): fix link references and slugs

controls/grid/server-side-programming/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
page_title: Server-Side Programming Overview | RadGrid for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Overview
slug: grid/server-side-programming/overview
tags: overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Server-Side Programming Overview

The following articles describes instructions and examples for server-side examples to access Cells, Values, Controls and more... in RadGrid: [Accessing Values and Controls]({%slug grid/accessing-values-and-controls/overview%}) article.

## Classes and Properties

Following is a table of the most important properties you should be aware of when working with RadGrid.


|  **Property**  |  **Description**  |
| ------ | ------ |
| **RadGrid.MasterTableView** |The main grid table - in the general case, when there is no hierarchy, only **RadGrid.MasterTableView** is rendered. You can think of this table as if it is the grid itself. **MasterTableView** and generally all table-views in the hierarchy use the style, client behavior and other settings applied to **RadGrid** , unless explicitly specified otherwise.|
| **GridTableView.DetailTables** |This collection is used for defining the hierarchical structure of **RadGrid** .|
| **RadGrid.ClientSettings** |Set various client-side appearance and behavior options. See [RadGridTable client-side API]({%slug grid/client-side-programming/overview%}) for details.|
| **RadGrid.*Style** |Properties that control the visual appearance of **RadGrid** and all tables in the hierarchy.|
| **GridDataTable.*Style properties** |Properties that control the visual appearance of **GridDataTable** and all tables in the hierarchy.|
| **GridTableView.ColumnGroups** |A collection of type GridColumnGroupCollection which holds the multiheaders in the GridTableView|
| **GridTableView.GroupByExpressions** |Add or remove objects to this collection to set grouping programmatically.|
| **GridTableView.SortExpressions** |Add or remove objects to this collection to set sorting programmatically.|
| **GridTableView.Columns** , **GridTableView.AutoGeneratedColumns** , **GridTableView.RenderColumns** |Properties to access runtime columns. Columns are set by default in design mode. **AutoGeneratedColumns** - are automatically generated columns **RenderColumns** - all columns - columns+ AutoGenerated (if any) + structure columns - expand/collapse and group-splitters|

>note Instead of setting properties for each GridTableView, you can use RadGrid global properties for: PageSize, AllowSorting, AllowPaging, AllowCustomPaging, ShowFooter, ShowHeader, BackColor, BorderColor, PagerStyle. Thus they will be set for each table in the hierarchy, unless specified otherwise.
>


## Events

When working with Telerik RadGrid you will probably often use the following events (sorted by categories).

### Command events

* [CancelCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/cancelcommand %}) 
                                       
    Fired when the Cancel button is clicked for an item in the RadGrid control.

* [DeleteCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/deletecommand %})  
                                      
    Fired when the Delete button is clicked for an item in the RadGrid control.

* [EditCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/editcommand %})  
                                          
    Fired when the Edit button is clicked for an item in the RadGrid control.

* [UpdateCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/updatecommand %}) 
                                       
    Fired when the Update button is clicked for an item in the RadGrid control.

* [InsertCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/insertcommand %}) 
                                       
    Fired when the Insert button is clicked for an item in the RadGrid control.

* [ItemCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/itemcommand %}) 
                                           
    Fired when any button is clicked in the RadGrid control. All bubbled events from grid items fire RadGrid.ItemCommand . Those like - Edit, Delete, or Update command events can be used 

* [BatchEditCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/batcheditcommand %}) 
                                      
    Fired when saving the changes if the data is bound on the server and the EditMode of the Grid is set to Batch. 

* [SortCommand]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/sortcommand %})

### Behavior 

* [ItemCreated]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/itemcreated %})  
                                       
    Fired on the server when an item in the RadGrid control is created.
 
* [ItemDataBound]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/itemdatabound %}) 
                                 
    Fired after an item is databound to the RadGrid control.
 
* [PageIndexChanged]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/pageindexchanged %})  
                                   
    Fired when one of the page selection elements is clicked.
 
* [PageSizeChanged]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/pagesizechanged %}) 
                                     
    Fired when the page size is changed through the advanced pager or manually in code
 
* [SelectedIndexChanged (inherited from GridBaseDataList )]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/selectedindexchanged %})
 
    Fired when a different item is selected in a data listing control between posts to the server.
 
* [ItemEvent]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/itemevent %}) 
                                            
    Marked for internal usage.
 
* [ColumnCreated]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/columncreated %}) 
                                            
    This event is fired after the creation of auto-generated columns.
 
* [ColumnCreating]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/columncreating %})  
                                      
    Fires before a custom column is created. You can handle the event to replace or modify the instance of the column that should be created and added into the collection of column in the 
 
* [GroupsChanging]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/groupschanging %}) 
                                      
    Fired when Telerik RadGrid tries to group its data (e.g. when a column header is dragged to the Group Panel).
 
* [CreateColumnEditor]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/createcolumneditor %}) 
                              
    Fired -after- the NeedDataSource event of the grid (which is raised right after the PageLoad event) and -before- any postback events for controls on the page/user control.
 
* [ColumnsReorder]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/columnsreorder %})  
                                     
    Fired when column reorder occurs (only when ClientSettings -> ReorderColumnsOnClient is set to false!)

### Data binding

* [DataBinding (inherited from Control)]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/databinding %}) 
                  
    Fired right before the server control binds to a data source. This event will fire only once, when RadGrid is initially binding.
 
* [DataBound (inherited from Control)]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/databound %}) 
                      
    Fired when the server control is bound to a data source.
 
* [NeedDataSource]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/needdatasource %}) 
                                 
    Fired when RadGrid needs a data source for rebinding.
 
* [DetailTableDataBind]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/detailtabledatabind %})
                                     
    Fired when a table from DetailTablesCollection binds to a data source.

### Automatic CRUD operations with Declarative DataSource controls

* [ItemDeleted]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/itemdeleted %}) 
                                            
    Fired when an automatic delete operation is executed.
 
* [ItemUpdated]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/itemupdated %}) 
                                           
    Fired when an automatic update operation is executed.
 
* [ItemInserted]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/iteminserted %})
                                                
    Fired when an automatic insert operation is executed.

### Row Drag&Drop

* [RowDrop]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/rowdrop %}) 
                                            
    Fired when drag and drop operation is triggered from the client

### Exporting

* [OnGridExporting]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/ongridexporting %})  
                                    
    Fired when RadGrid is exported to Excel/Word/Csv/Pdf before the resulting document is rendered on the client.
 
* [OnPdfExporting]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/onpdfexporting %})  
                        
    Fired when RadGrid is exported to Pdf before the resulting document is rendered on the client. Appropriate for customizing the grid table appearance in the .pdf document.
 
* [OnExcelExportCellFormatting]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/onexcelexportcellformatting %}) 
           
    Fired when RadGrid is exported to Excel before the resulting document is rendered on the client.
 
* [OnExcelMLExportStylesCreated]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/onexcelmlexportstylescreated %})  
            
    Fired when RadGrid is exported to native Excel before the OnExcelMLExportRowCreated event.
 
* [OnExcelMLExportRowCreated]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/onexcelmlexportrowcreated %})
                                  
    Fired when RadGrid is exported to native Excel before the resulting document is rendered on the client.

### Miscellanious

* [Disposed (inherited from Control)]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/disposed %}) 
                            
    Fired when a server control is released from the memory, which is the last stage of the server control lifecycle when an ASP.NET page is requested.
 
* [Init (inherited from Control)]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/init %}) 
                                
    Fired when the server control is initialized, which is the first step in its lifecycle.
 
* [Load (inherited from Control)]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/load %})
                            
    Fired when the server control is loaded into the RadGrid object.
 
* [PreRender (inherited from Control)]({%slug grid/server-side-programming/events/prerender %}) 
                         
    Fired when the server control is about to render to its containing Page object.

* Unload (inherited from Control)
                                 
    Fired when the server control is unloaded from the memory.
