controls/editor/managing-content/prevent-cross-site-scripting-(xss).md, before:

---
title: Prevent Cross-site Scripting (XSS)
page_title: Prevent Cross-site Scripting (XSS) | RadEditor for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Prevent Cross-site Scripting (XSS)
slug: editor/managing-content/prevent-cross-site-scripting-(xss)
tags: prevent,cross-site,scripting,(xss)
published: True
position: 4
---

# Prevent Cross-site Scripting (XSS)

This article examines the built-in protection of the **RadEditor** control against **Cross Site Scripting (XSS)** attacks and explains	how you can handle specific security needs via a custom solution.

## RadEditor and XSS

XSS is a class of attacks where malicious scripts can be injected in the web application and submitted to the server. If no validation or protective measures are undertaken,the injected script is executed on the page, loaded by an unsuspecting user. Subsequently,any sensitive information could be successfully hijacked to a location, known by the attacker.

These type of attacks are popular, therefore, this matter is a commonly discussed topic in various public articles. You can learn more about how to protect your applications against XSS attacks by following these materials:

* MSDN: [How To: Prevent Cross-Site Scripting in ASP.NET](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ff649310.aspx)
* OWASP: [Cross-site Scripting (XSS)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cross-site_Scripting_%28XSS%29)
* MDN: [Cross-site scripting](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Cross-site_scripting)

**RadEditor** provides built-in options for XSS protection of the processed content. Nevertheless,it should not be underestimated that it is still the developer’s responsibility to take care ofthe application security and validate the submitted content to prevent possible attacks as per to the guidelines of the materials provided.

The built-in **RadEditor** features to prevent harmful content are:

* [RemoveScripts and EncodeScripts filters](#removescripts-and-encodescripts)—**RadEditor** strips and/or encodes the script elements in order to prevent script loading/execution;
* [CSS expression stripping](#css-expressions)—**RadEditor** sanitizes the content from possible script injections via CSS;
* [Removing attribute DOM events](#attribute-dom-events)—**RadEditor** removes the DOM attributes that expose an option to add inline JavaScript code (e.g., onclick, onmouseover);
* [Custom content filters](#custom-content-filters)—**RadEditor** lets you implement your own logic to strip or encode specific tags or expressions.

## RemoveScripts and EncodeScripts

The **RemoveScripts** and **EncodeScripts** filters are [content filters]({%slug editor/managing-content/content-filters%}) that handle `<script>` tags inserted in the editor’s content.

RemoveScripts filter strips all `<script>` elements and all JavaScript logic enclosed between its tags.This filter is designed to work on both client and server side to protect from possible execution of an already injected malicious code. For example, this content:

````HTML
<p>paragraph</p>
<script>
	alert("XSS")
</script>
````

Will become this:

````HTML
<p>paragraph</p>
````


**EncodeScripts** enables end-users to enter a `<script>` element, although no code from it will be executed,because the script tags will be transformed to an HTML comment. For example, this content:

````HTML
<p>paragraph</p>
<script>
	alert("XSS")
</script>
````

In Design mode will be transformed to:

````HTML
<p>paragraph</p>
<!--RADEDITORSAVEDTAG_script>
	alert("XSS")
</script-->
````

And in HTML will be decoded, so that user can continue working on it.

This filter is intended only to encode and decode scripts, so JavaScript code will not be executed while edited in the **RadEditor**. Also, the submitted content will be decoded on the server (i.e., the server-side **RadEditor.Content** property will return content with fully functional script logic).

Note that if the **RemoveScripts** filter is enabled, the **EncodeScripts** one will be of no value.Therefore, if you need to let users edit JavaScript in the **RadEditor** you should disable the **RemoveScripts** filter.For that you can use the server-side [DisableFilter()](http://www.telerik.com/help/aspnet-ajax/m_telerik_web_ui_radeditor_disablefilter.html) method.

## CSS Expressions

[CSS expressions](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ie/ms537634%28v=vs.85%29.aspx) were first introduced in Internet Explorer 5.5 and later deprecated with the release of Internet Explorer 8.They were designed to provide more flexible CSS stylization by incorporating JavaScript logic directly in CSS properties. This feature,again, leads to the possibility of XSS attacks by injecting malicious script in the expressions.

Since its **Q3 2014** version, **RadEditor** provides built-in protection against this kind of attack.With the **StripCssExpressions** filter, CSS expressions are automatically stripped from the content. For example, the following HTML:

````HTML
<style type="text/css">
	#container {
		width: expression(document.body.offsetWidth / 4 + 30 + "px");
	}
</style>
<div id="container">
	some text
</div>
````


Will be modified by this filter to the following:

````HTML
<style type="text/css">
	#container {

	}
</style>
<div id="container">
	some text
</div>	
````


The **StripCssExpressions** filter runs not only on the client, but also on the server and removes any CSS expressions from the content to protect from possible execution of an already injected malicious code. Note that if this filter is disabled, both client-side and server-side logic will not be executed, and CSS expressions will not be removed.

## Attribute DOM Events

The well-known [DOM event attributes](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DOM_events) like onclick, onmouseover, etc. can also create an XSS vulnerability. Since their value is a JavaScript string, injection of scripts is possible which can be categorized as an XSS attack.

Since the **Q3 2014** version, the **StripDomEventAttributes** filter removes the attribute handler and all the inline code. For example, this content:

````HTML
<p onclick="alert('XSS')">paragraph</p>
````

Will be changed to this one:

````HTML
<p>paragraph</p>
````

**StripDomEventAttributes**, just like the **StripCssExpressions** and **RemoveScripts** filters, runs both on the client and on the server side to protect from possible execution of an already injected malicious code. Disabling it will prevent all such attributes from being removed.

## Custom Content Filters

Upon further security testing or according to additional custom needs, there may be the need to remove, strip or modify content based on specific requirements that are not covered out of the box.

Since the creation of the **RadEditor** control, building a [Custom Content Filter](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/editor/examples/contentfilters/defaultcs.aspx) has been a well-known approach to prevent malicious code from being submitted and eventually executed on a page.

**Example 1** demonstrates a simple encoding approach, where the script tags are encoded with the corresponding HTML entities. This prevents the script logic from being executed and the script element is rendered as plain text on the page for the reader to see.

>important The custom filters process the content only on the client. In cases where the content should be sanitized on the server, further logic should be implemented in the code behind when content is saved to the data base and/or when requested. See **Example 2** .
>


>caption Example 1: Custom content filter that shows script tags as text to the user.


````ASP.NET
<telerik:RadEditor RenderMode="Lightweight" runat="server" ID="RadEditor1" OnClientLoad="OnClientLoad">
</telerik:RadEditor>

<script type="text/javascript">
	function OnClientLoad(editor, args) {
		editor.get_filtersManager().add(new MyCustomScriptEncoder());
	}

	function MyCustomScriptEncoder() {
		MyCustomScriptEncoder.initializeBase(this);
		this.set_isDom(false);
		this.set_enabled(true);
		this.set_name("MyCustomScriptEncoderFilter");
		this.set_description("Encodes all <script> tags and allows the browser to render them as plain text.");
	}

	MyCustomScriptEncoder.prototype = {
		encodeScripts: function (contentToEncode) {
			var encodedContent = contentToEncode.replace(/<(\/*)script([^>]*)>/gi, "&lt;$1script$2&gt;");
			return encodedContent
		},

		getDesignContent: function (content) {
			var newContent = content;
			return this.encodeScripts(newContent);
		},

		// The code below is the same because it needs to be applied when switching to HTML mode and also when content is submitted. 
		getHtmlContent: function (content) {
			var newContent = content;
			return this.encodeScripts(newContent);
		}
	}

	MyCustomScriptEncoder.registerClass('MyCustomScriptEncoderFilter', Telerik.Web.UI.Editor.Filter);
</script>
````
````C#
/* These filters are disabled only for demonstration purpose.
   Creating a custom content filter does not involve disabling any of the default filters. */

RadEditor1.DisableFilter(EditorFilters.RemoveScripts);
RadEditor1.DisableFilter(EditorFilters.EncodeScripts);
````
````VB
' These filters are disabled only for demonstration purpose.
' Creating a custom content filter does not involve disabling any of the default filters.
RadEditor1.DisableFilter(EditorFilters.RemoveScripts)
RadEditor1.DisableFilter(EditorFilters.EncodeScripts)
````


>caption Example 2: Custom code behind logic to remove scripts from the content before loading it in the **RadEditor**.

````C#
using System;
using System.Text.RegularExpressions;
using Telerik.Web.UI;

public partial class DefaultCS : System.Web.UI.Page
{
	protected void Page_Load(object sender, EventArgs e)
	{
		// Dummy content from data base.
		string htmlContent = "some text<script>alert('XSS')</script> some text"; 

		RadEditor1.Content = sanitizeScripts(htmlContent);
	}

	private string sanitizeScripts(string htmlContent)
	{
		Regex regex = new Regex(@"<script[^>]*>[^>]*>");

		string sanitizedContent = regex.Replace(htmlContent, "");

		return sanitizedContent;
	}
}
````
````VB
Imports System.Text.RegularExpressions
Imports Telerik.Web.UI

Partial Public Class DefaultVB
	Inherits System.Web.UI.Page
	Protected Sub Page_Load(sender As Object, e As EventArgs)
		' Dummy content from data base.
		Dim htmlContent As String = "some text <script>alert('XSS')</script> some text"

		RadEditor1.Content = sanitizeScripts(htmlContent)
	End Sub

	Private Function sanitizeScripts(htmlContent As String) As String
		Dim regex As New Regex("<script[^>]*>[^>]*>")

		Dim sanitizedContent As String = regex.Replace(htmlContent, "")

		Return sanitizedContent
	End Function
End Class
````


## See Also

 * [Content Filters]({%slug editor/managing-content/content-filters%})

 * [Securing RadEditor Content and Preventing XSS Attacks](http://blogs.telerik.com/blogs/14-09-24/securing-radeditor-content-and-preventing-xss-attacks)

 * [Demo: Built-in Content Filters](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/editor/examples/builtincontentfilters/defaultcs.aspx)

 * [Demo: Custom Content Filters](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/editor/examples/contentfilters/defaultcs.aspx)

* [Prevention of XSS attacks through DOM attributes](https://www.telerik.com/support/kb/aspnet-ajax/editor/details/prevention-of-xss-attacks-through-dom-attributes)

Commit message:

docs(editor): add info which anti-xss filters are enabled by default

controls/editor/managing-content/prevent-cross-site-scripting-(xss).md, after:

---
title: Prevent Cross-site Scripting (XSS)
page_title: Prevent Cross-site Scripting (XSS) | RadEditor for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Prevent Cross-site Scripting (XSS)
slug: editor/managing-content/prevent-cross-site-scripting-(xss)
tags: prevent,cross-site,scripting,(xss)
published: True
position: 4
---

# Prevent Cross-site Scripting (XSS)

This article examines the built-in protection of the **RadEditor** control against **Cross Site Scripting (XSS)** attacks and explains	how you can handle specific security needs via a custom solution.

## RadEditor and XSS

XSS is a class of attacks where malicious scripts can be injected in the web application and submitted to the server. If no validation or protective measures are undertaken, the injected script is executed on the page, loaded by an unsuspecting user. Subsequently, any sensitive information could be successfully hijacked to a location, known by the attacker.

These type of attacks are popular, therefore, this matter is a commonly discussed topic in various public articles. You can learn more about how to protect your applications against XSS attacks by following these materials:

* MSDN: [How To: Prevent Cross-Site Scripting in ASP.NET](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ff649310.aspx)
* OWASP: [Cross-site Scripting (XSS)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cross-site_Scripting_%28XSS%29)
* MDN: [Cross-site scripting](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Cross-site_scripting)

**RadEditor** provides built-in options for XSS protection of the processed content. Nevertheless, it should not be underestimated that it is still the developer’s responsibility to take care of the application security and validate the submitted content to prevent possible attacks as per to the guidelines of the materials provided.

The built-in **RadEditor** features to prevent harmful content are:

* [RemoveScripts and EncodeScripts filters](#removescripts-and-encodescripts)—**RadEditor** strips and/or encodes the script elements in order to prevent script loading/execution;
* [CSS expression stripping](#css-expressions)—**RadEditor** sanitizes the content from possible script injections via CSS;
* [Removing attribute DOM events](#attribute-dom-events)—**RadEditor** removes the DOM attributes that expose an option to add inline JavaScript code (e.g., onclick, onmouseover);
* [Custom content filters](#custom-content-filters)—**RadEditor** lets you implement your own logic to strip or encode specific tags or expressions.

>caution The **StripDomEventAttributes** filter and the **EncodeScripts** filter are **not** enabled by default. See below for details.

## RemoveScripts and EncodeScripts

The **RemoveScripts** and **EncodeScripts** filters are [content filters]({%slug editor/managing-content/content-filters%}) that handle `<script>` tags inserted in the editor’s content.

RemoveScripts filter strips all `<script>` elements and all JavaScript logic enclosed between its tags. This filter is designed to work on both client and server side to protect from possible execution of an already injected malicious code. For example, this content:

````HTML
<p>paragraph</p>
<script>
	alert("XSS")
</script>
````

Will become this:

````HTML
<p>paragraph</p>
````


**EncodeScripts** enables end-users to enter a `<script>` element, although no code from it will be executed,because the script tags will be transformed to an HTML comment. For example, this content:

````HTML
<p>paragraph</p>
<script>
	alert("XSS")
</script>
````

In Design mode will be transformed to:

````HTML
<p>paragraph</p>
<!--RADEDITORSAVEDTAG_script>
	alert("XSS")
</script-->
````

And in HTML will be decoded, so that user can continue working on it.

This filter is intended only to encode and decode scripts, so JavaScript code will not be executed while edited in the **RadEditor**. Also, the submitted content will be decoded on the server (i.e., the server-side **RadEditor.Content** property will return content with fully functional script logic).

>note If the **RemoveScripts** filter is enabled (its default state), the **EncodeScripts** one will be of no value, so it is **not** enabled by default. Therefore, if you need to let users edit JavaScript in the **RadEditor**, you should disable the **RemoveScripts** filter. For that you can use the server-side [DisableFilter()](http://www.telerik.com/help/aspnet-ajax/m_telerik_web_ui_radeditor_disablefilter.html) method.

## CSS Expressions

[CSS expressions](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ie/ms537634%28v=vs.85%29.aspx) were first introduced in Internet Explorer 5.5 and later deprecated with the release of Internet Explorer 8.They were designed to provide more flexible CSS stylization by incorporating JavaScript logic directly in CSS properties. This feature, again, leads to the possibility of XSS attacks by injecting malicious script in the expressions.

Since its **Q3 2014** version, **RadEditor** provides built-in protection against this kind of attack. With the **StripCssExpressions** filter, CSS expressions are automatically stripped from the content. For example, the following HTML:

````HTML
<style type="text/css">
	#container {
		width: expression(document.body.offsetWidth / 4 + 30 + "px");
	}
</style>
<div id="container">
	some text
</div>
````


Will be modified by this filter to the following:

````HTML
<style type="text/css">
	#container {

	}
</style>
<div id="container">
	some text
</div>	
````


The **StripCssExpressions** filter runs not only on the client, but also on the server and removes any CSS expressions from the content to protect from possible execution of an already injected malicious code. Note that if this filter is disabled, both client-side and server-side logic will not be executed, and CSS expressions will not be removed.

## Attribute DOM Events

The well-known [DOM event attributes](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DOM_events) like onclick, onmouseover, etc. can also create an XSS vulnerability. Since their value is a JavaScript string, injection of scripts is possible which can be categorized as an XSS attack.

Since the **Q3 2014** version, the **StripDomEventAttributes** filter removes the attribute handler and all the inline code. For example, this content:

````HTML
<p onclick="alert('XSS')">paragraph</p>
````

Will be changed to this one:

````HTML
<p>paragraph</p>
````

**StripDomEventAttributes**, just like the **StripCssExpressions** and **RemoveScripts** filters, runs both on the client and on the server side to protect from possible execution of an already injected malicious code. Disabling it will prevent all such attributes from being removed.

>caution The **StripDomEventAttributes** filter is **not** enabled by default. This is so, because it removes content and, in doing so, may break templates or other logic required by the application.

## Custom Content Filters

Upon further security testing or according to additional custom needs, there may be the need to remove, strip or modify content based on specific requirements that are not covered out of the box.

Since the creation of the **RadEditor** control, building a [Custom Content Filter](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/editor/examples/contentfilters/defaultcs.aspx) has been a well-known approach to prevent malicious code from being submitted and eventually executed on a page.

**Example 1** demonstrates a simple encoding approach, where the script tags are encoded with the corresponding HTML entities. This prevents the script logic from being executed and the script element is rendered as plain text on the page for the reader to see.

>important The custom filters process the content only on the client. In cases where the content should be sanitized on the server, further logic should be implemented in the code behind when content is saved to the data base and/or when requested. See **Example 2** .
>


>caption Example 1: Custom content filter that shows script tags as text to the user.


````ASP.NET
<telerik:RadEditor RenderMode="Lightweight" runat="server" ID="RadEditor1" OnClientLoad="OnClientLoad">
</telerik:RadEditor>

<script type="text/javascript">
	function OnClientLoad(editor, args) {
		editor.get_filtersManager().add(new MyCustomScriptEncoder());
	}

	function MyCustomScriptEncoder() {
		MyCustomScriptEncoder.initializeBase(this);
		this.set_isDom(false);
		this.set_enabled(true);
		this.set_name("MyCustomScriptEncoderFilter");
		this.set_description("Encodes all <script> tags and allows the browser to render them as plain text.");
	}

	MyCustomScriptEncoder.prototype = {
		encodeScripts: function (contentToEncode) {
			var encodedContent = contentToEncode.replace(/<(\/*)script([^>]*)>/gi, "&lt;$1script$2&gt;");
			return encodedContent
		},

		getDesignContent: function (content) {
			var newContent = content;
			return this.encodeScripts(newContent);
		},

		// The code below is the same because it needs to be applied when switching to HTML mode and also when content is submitted. 
		getHtmlContent: function (content) {
			var newContent = content;
			return this.encodeScripts(newContent);
		}
	}

	MyCustomScriptEncoder.registerClass('MyCustomScriptEncoderFilter', Telerik.Web.UI.Editor.Filter);
</script>
````
````C#
/* These filters are disabled only for demonstration purpose.
   Creating a custom content filter does not involve disabling any of the default filters. */

RadEditor1.DisableFilter(EditorFilters.RemoveScripts);
RadEditor1.DisableFilter(EditorFilters.EncodeScripts);
````
````VB
' These filters are disabled only for demonstration purpose.
' Creating a custom content filter does not involve disabling any of the default filters.
RadEditor1.DisableFilter(EditorFilters.RemoveScripts)
RadEditor1.DisableFilter(EditorFilters.EncodeScripts)
````


>caption Example 2: Custom code behind logic to remove scripts from the content before loading it in the **RadEditor**.

````C#
using System;
using System.Text.RegularExpressions;
using Telerik.Web.UI;

public partial class DefaultCS : System.Web.UI.Page
{
	protected void Page_Load(object sender, EventArgs e)
	{
		// Dummy content from data base.
		string htmlContent = "some text<script>alert('XSS')</script> some text"; 

		RadEditor1.Content = sanitizeScripts(htmlContent);
	}

	private string sanitizeScripts(string htmlContent)
	{
		Regex regex = new Regex(@"<script[^>]*>[^>]*>");

		string sanitizedContent = regex.Replace(htmlContent, "");

		return sanitizedContent;
	}
}
````
````VB
Imports System.Text.RegularExpressions
Imports Telerik.Web.UI

Partial Public Class DefaultVB
	Inherits System.Web.UI.Page
	Protected Sub Page_Load(sender As Object, e As EventArgs)
		' Dummy content from data base.
		Dim htmlContent As String = "some text <script>alert('XSS')</script> some text"

		RadEditor1.Content = sanitizeScripts(htmlContent)
	End Sub

	Private Function sanitizeScripts(htmlContent As String) As String
		Dim regex As New Regex("<script[^>]*>[^>]*>")

		Dim sanitizedContent As String = regex.Replace(htmlContent, "")

		Return sanitizedContent
	End Function
End Class
````


## See Also

 * [Content Filters]({%slug editor/managing-content/content-filters%})

 * [Securing RadEditor Content and Preventing XSS Attacks](http://blogs.telerik.com/blogs/14-09-24/securing-radeditor-content-and-preventing-xss-attacks)

 * [Demo: Built-in Content Filters](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/editor/examples/builtincontentfilters/defaultcs.aspx)

 * [Demo: Custom Content Filters](http://demos.telerik.com/aspnet-ajax/editor/examples/contentfilters/defaultcs.aspx)

* [Prevention of XSS attacks through DOM attributes](https://www.telerik.com/support/kb/aspnet-ajax/editor/details/prevention-of-xss-attacks-through-dom-attributes)
