controls/editor/design-time/smart-tag.md, before:

---
title: Smart Tag
page_title: Smart Tag | RadEditor for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Smart Tag
slug: editor/design-time/smart-tag
tags: smart,tag
published: True
position: 0
---

# Smart Tag

The Smart Tag of **RadEditor** lets you configure your control or quickly get help. You can display	the Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadEditor** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag", or clicking the small rightward-pointing arrow located in the upper right corner of the control. You can see how the Smart Tag opened in **Figure 1**.

>caption Figure 1: Shows the opened Smart Tag

![editor-design-time-smart-tag](images/editor-design-time-smart-tag/editor-design-time-smart-tag.png)

## Configuration Wizard

**Open** opens the wizard where you could configure RadEditor's:

* **Tools**
* **Dialog Managers**
* **Fonts**
* **Font Sizes**
* **Real Font Sizes**
* **Paragraphs**
* **CSS Styles**
* **External CSS Files**
* **Custom Links**
* **Colors**

## Ajax Resources

* **Add RadAjaxManager...** adds a **RadAjaxManager** component to your Web page, and displays the **RadAjax Property Builder** where you can configure it.

* **Add RadStyleSheetManager** adds a **RadStyleSheetManager** to your Web page.

## Skin

The **Skin** drop-down displays a list of available [skins]({%slug editor/appearance-and-styling/skins%}) that you can apply to your control, along with an example of what the **RadDock** control looks like for each skin. Assign a skin by selecting the one you want from the list.

## Copy Built-in Dialogs to the Project

Gets the User Control files of the RadEditor built-in dialogs from the used Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX suite and adds them into the project RadEditorDialogs folder.Additionally [the ExternalDialogsPath property]({%slug editor/functionality/dialogs/externaldialogspath-property%}) is set with the path to this folder.

>warning Note that this option will override the already existing files in the RadEditorDialogs folder. If additional dialog customizations are done, it is recommended to backup the files before this action.

## Learning Center

* Links navigate you directly to examples, help, and code library.

* You can also search the Telerik web site for a given string.

* You can navigate directly to the [Telerik Support Center](http://www.telerik.com/support/home.aspx).

Commit message:

Updated Smart tag articles for popular controls

controls/editor/design-time/smart-tag.md, after:

---
title: Smart Tag
page_title: Smart Tag | RadEditor for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Smart Tag
slug: editor/design-time/smart-tag
tags: smart,tag
published: True
position: 0
---

# Smart Tag

The Smart Tag of **RadEditor** lets you configure your control or quickly get help. You can display	the Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadEditor** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag", or clicking the small rightward-pointing arrow located in the upper right corner of the control. You can see how the Smart Tag opened in **Figure 1**.

As of Q2 2015 we have improved the smart tags of our controls by displaying the most popular control specific properties and adding links to their important online resources:

>caption Figure 1: Shows the opened Smart Tag

![editor-design-time-smart-tag](images/editor-design-time-smart-tag/editor-design-time-smart-tag.png)

## Configuration Wizard

**Open** opens the wizard where you could configure RadEditor's:

* **Tools**
* **Dialog Managers**
* **Fonts**
* **Font Sizes**
* **Real Font Sizes**
* **Paragraphs**
* **CSS Styles**
* **External CSS Files**
* **Custom Links**
* **Colors**

## Ajax Resources

* **Add RadAjaxManager...** adds a **RadAjaxManager** component to your Web page, and displays the **RadAjax Property Builder** where you can configure it.

* **Add RadStyleSheetManager** adds a **RadStyleSheetManager** to your Web page.

## Skin

The **Skin** drop-down displays a list of available [skins]({%slug editor/appearance-and-styling/skins%}) that you can apply to your control, along with an example of what the **RadDock** control looks like for each skin. Assign a skin by selecting the one you want from the list.

## Copy Built-in Dialogs to the Project

Gets the User Control files of the RadEditor built-in dialogs from the used Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX suite and adds them into the project RadEditorDialogs folder.Additionally [the ExternalDialogsPath property]({%slug editor/functionality/dialogs/externaldialogspath-property%}) is set with the path to this folder.

>warning Note that this option will override the already existing files in the RadEditorDialogs folder. If additional dialog customizations are done, it is recommended to backup the files before this action.

## Learning Center

* Links navigate you directly to examples, help, and code library.

* You can also search the Telerik web site for a given string.

* You can navigate directly to the [Telerik Support Center](http://www.telerik.com/support/home.aspx).
