controls/scheduler/views/year-view.md, before:

---
title: Year View
page_title: Year View | RadScheduler for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Year View
slug: scheduler/views/year-view
tags: year,view
published: True
position: 9
---

# Year View



The **Year View** allows you to revise and manage the appointments yearly. You can also group the months horizontally and vertically.
In addition to that, this view provides a Tooltip functionality, which allows you to revise the appointments for a given day. You can scroll the list of the appointments, by hovering the most top or most bottom part of the Tooltip.

## Year View Settings

* **ShowDateHeaders** - property that can be used to manage the visibility of the Date Headers for each column in the month.

* **ShowMonthHeaders** - property that can be used to manage the visibility of the Month Headers for the months of the Year View.

* **ColumnHeaderDateFormat** - Sets the date format for the Date Headers for each column in the month.

* **MonthHeaderDateFormat** - Sets the date format for the months listed in the Year View.

## Grouping

**Year View** provides support for Resource grouping namely:

* No Grouping (Basic look)
<!--![scheduler-views-yearviewnogrouping.png](images/scheduler-views-yearviewnogrouping.png)-->

* Grouped by Resource (**Horizontal**)
<!--![scheduler-views-monthview-horizontalgroupingbyresource](images/scheduler-views-monthview-horizontalgroupingbyresource.png)-->

* Grouped by Resource (**Vertical**)
<!--![scheduler-views-yearview-verticalresources.png](images/scheduler-views-yearview-verticalresources.png)-->

Commit message:

docs(scheduler): YearView availability note

controls/scheduler/views/year-view.md, after:

---
title: Year View
page_title: Year View | RadScheduler for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Year View
slug: scheduler/views/year-view
tags: year,view
published: True
position: 9
---

# Year View



The **Year View** allows you to revise and manage the appointments yearly. You can also group the months horizontally and vertically.
In addition to that, this view provides a Tooltip functionality, which allows you to revise the appointments for a given day. You can scroll the list of the appointments, by hovering the most top or most bottom part of the Tooltip.

>note The **Year View** is available only for the *Lightweight* and *Mobile* render modes.
>

## Year View Settings

* **ShowDateHeaders** - property that can be used to manage the visibility of the Date Headers for each column in the month.

* **ShowMonthHeaders** - property that can be used to manage the visibility of the Month Headers for the months of the Year View.

* **ColumnHeaderDateFormat** - Sets the date format for the Date Headers for each column in the month.

* **MonthHeaderDateFormat** - Sets the date format for the months listed in the Year View.

## Grouping

**Year View** provides support for Resource grouping namely:

* No Grouping (Basic look)
<!--![scheduler-views-yearviewnogrouping.png](images/scheduler-views-yearviewnogrouping.png)-->

* Grouped by Resource (**Horizontal**)
<!--![scheduler-views-monthview-horizontalgroupingbyresource](images/scheduler-views-monthview-horizontalgroupingbyresource.png)-->

* Grouped by Resource (**Vertical**)
<!--![scheduler-views-yearview-verticalresources.png](images/scheduler-views-yearview-verticalresources.png)-->
