controls/tooltip/design-time/smart-tag.md, before:

---
title: Smart Tag
page_title: Smart Tag | RadTooltip for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Smart Tag
slug: tooltip/design-time/smart-tag
tags: smart,tag
published: True
position: 0
---

# Smart Tag



The Smart Tags for **RadToolTip** and **RadToolTipManager** are identical. They all let you easily change the skin for your control or quickly get help. You can display the Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadToolTip** and **RadToolTipManager** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag", or clicking the small rightward-pointing arrow located in the upper right corner of the control.


![tooltip-smart-tag](images/tooltip-smart-tag.png)

## Ajax Resources

* **Add RadAjaxManager...** adds a **RadAjaxManager** component to your Web page, and displays the **r.a.d.ajax Property Builder** where you can configure it.

* **Add RadStyleSheetManager** adds a **RadStyleSheetManager** to your Web page.

## Skin

The **Skin** drop-down displays a list of available [skins]({%slug tooltip/appearance-and-styling/skins%}) that you can apply to your control, along with an example of what the tool tips look like for each skin. Assign a skin by selecting from the list.

## Learning Center

* Links navigate you directly to examples, help, and code library.

* You can navigate directly to the [Telerik Support Center](http://www.telerik.com/support/home.aspx).

# See Also

 * [Skins]({%slug tooltip/appearance-and-styling/skins%})

Commit message:

Updated Smart tag articles for popular controls

controls/tooltip/design-time/smart-tag.md, after:

---
title: Smart Tag
page_title: Smart Tag | RadTooltip for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Smart Tag
slug: tooltip/design-time/smart-tag
tags: smart,tag
published: True
position: 0
---

# Smart Tag



The Smart Tags for **RadToolTip** and **RadToolTipManager** are identical. They all let you easily change the skin for your control or quickly get help. You can display the Smart Tag by right clicking on a **RadToolTip** and **RadToolTipManager** control and choosing "Show Smart Tag", or clicking the small rightward-pointing arrow located in the upper right corner of the control.

As of Q2 2015 we have improved the smart tags of our controls by displaying the most popular control specific properties and adding links to their important online resources:

![tooltip-smart-tag](images/tooltip-smart-tag.png)

## Ajax Resources

* **Add RadAjaxManager...** adds a **RadAjaxManager** component to your Web page, and displays the **r.a.d.ajax Property Builder** where you can configure it.

* **Add RadStyleSheetManager** adds a **RadStyleSheetManager** to your Web page.

## Skin

The **Skin** drop-down displays a list of available [skins]({%slug tooltip/appearance-and-styling/skins%}) that you can apply to your control, along with an example of what the tool tips look like for each skin. Assign a skin by selecting from the list.

## Learning Center

* Links navigate you directly to examples, help, and code library.

* You can navigate directly to the [Telerik Support Center](http://www.telerik.com/support/home.aspx).

# See Also

 * [Skins]({%slug tooltip/appearance-and-styling/skins%})
