controls/checkbox/appearance-and-styling/skins.md, before:

---
title: Skins
page_title: Skins | RadCheckBox for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Skins
slug: checkbox/appearance-and-styling/skins
tags: skins
published: True
position: 0
---

# Skins

**RadCheckBox** uses **skins** to control its overall look-and-feel. A skin is a set of images and a CSS stylesheet that can be applied to the control elements and defines their look and feel.

To apply a skin to a **RadCheckBox** control, set its **Skin** property.

**RadCheckBox** is installed with a number of preset skins. These are shown below:

![RadCheckBox-skins](images/checkbox-skins.png)

## Customizing Skins

You can tweak the existing skins or create your own. See [Create a Custom Skin For RadCheckBox]({%slug checkbox/appearance-and-styling/create-a-custom-skin%}) for a step-by-step walk through. To use your own skin:

1. Add the new CSS file to your project.

1. Drag and drop the CSS file from the Project Explorer onto your Web page.

1. Set the **EnableEmbeddedSkins** property of the control to **False**.

The stylesheet for a **RadCheckBox** skin has the name **Button.[SkinName].css** and can be found in the **...Skins/[SkinName]** directory. For example, the stylesheet for the "Black" skin is called Button.Black.css and is located in the ...Skins/Black directory.

## See Also

 * [Create a Custom Skin]({%slug checkbox/appearance-and-styling/create-a-custom-skin%})

Commit message:

add not that Material skin is available in LWR mode only

controls/checkbox/appearance-and-styling/skins.md, after:

---
title: Skins
page_title: Skins | RadCheckBox for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Skins
slug: checkbox/appearance-and-styling/skins
tags: skins
published: True
position: 0
---

# Skins

**RadCheckBox** uses **skins** to control its overall look-and-feel. A skin is a set of images and a CSS stylesheet that can be applied to the control elements and defines their look and feel.

To apply a skin to a **RadCheckBox** control, set its **Skin** property.

**RadCheckBox** is installed with a number of preset skins. These are shown below:

![RadCheckBox-skins](images/checkbox-skins.png) 


 @[template - Material skin is available only in Lightweight mode](/_templates/common/skins-notes.md#material-only-in-lightweight) 



## Customizing Skins

You can tweak the existing skins or create your own. See [Create a Custom Skin For RadCheckBox]({%slug checkbox/appearance-and-styling/create-a-custom-skin%}) for a step-by-step walk through. To use your own skin:

1. Add the new CSS file to your project.

1. Drag and drop the CSS file from the Project Explorer onto your Web page.

1. Set the **EnableEmbeddedSkins** property of the control to **False**.

The stylesheet for a **RadCheckBox** skin has the name **Button.[SkinName].css** and can be found in the **...Skins/[SkinName]** directory. For example, the stylesheet for the "Black" skin is called Button.Black.css and is located in the ...Skins/Black directory.

## See Also

 * [Create a Custom Skin]({%slug checkbox/appearance-and-styling/create-a-custom-skin%})
