general-information/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/automatic-latest-version-retrieval.md, before:

---
title: Download New Version
page_title: Download New Version | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Download New Version
slug: introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/automatic-latest-version-retrieval
tags: automatic,latest,version,retrieval
published: True
position: 6
---

# Download New Version

With the Telerik Visual Studio Extensions you keep your projects in an up-to-date state.The Latest Version Acquirer tool automatically retrieves the freshest Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX distribution, available on the Telerik website. Running the [Upgrade Wizard]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/upgrade-wizard%}) as a next step makes the task of latest Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX package utilization extremely easy.

Once a day, upon Visual Studio launch, the Telerik ASP.NET AJAX VSExtensions queue the Telerik website for a new version of Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX. A dialog gets displayed when a new version is discovered:

![Newer Version Available Notification](images/introduction-vsx_latestversionacquirer_newversionnotification.png)

>note If you've disabled the notifications, you can use the [Options Dialog]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/visual-studio-extensions-options%}) to activate them again.

Clicking the Get Now button starts the Latest Version Acquirer tool,	prompting for your Telerik credentials and the type of license you own in its first page.	If you do not have a [www.telerik.com](http://www.telerik.com)	account, you can create one through the **Create an account for free** link.

![Latest Version Acquirer: Login](images/introduction-vsx_latestversionacquirer_login.png)

You can use the **Save my password checkbox** to save having to enter your Telerik credentials multiple times. The persistence is done in a secure manner and credentials are saved in a per-user context. This way other users on the machine	that do not have access to your user data from downloading through your account.

If your subscription has expired, you could either proceed with downloading a trial distribution or you	could renew it and initiate the download again. You can check the additional information about the release by clicking the Release Notes link. This will start a browser, navigated to a page with the release notes related to the specific version.

![Latest Version Acquirer: Trial available](images/introduction-vsx_latestversionacquirer_trial.png)

![Latest Version Acquirer: Downloading](images/introduction-vsx_latestversionacquirer_downloading.png)

![Latest Version Acquirer: Download successful](images/introduction-vsx_latestversionacquirer_success.png)

Once the download succeeds, the latest version of the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX will be available for use in the [Upgrade Wizard]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/upgrade-wizard%}) and the [New Project Wizard]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/creation-and-configuration-wizard%}).

>tip The GET LATEST buttons of the [Upgrade Wizard]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/upgrade-wizard%}) and the [New Project Wizard]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/creation-and-configuration-wizard%}) launch the Latest Version Acquirer tool too.

>note The Latest Version Acquirer tool actually downloads the hotfix zip files, containing the latest Telerik binaries	and any resources vital for the Telerik Web Application/Web Site project creation. These get unpacked to the `%appdata%\Telerik\Updates` folder.
>If you find the list of packages offered too long and you don't need the older versions, you can	close Visual Studio and use Windows Explorer to delete these distributions.

Commit message:

Updated the name of the Get Latest Version Acquirer to be New Version Downloader.

general-information/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/automatic-latest-version-retrieval.md, after:

---
title: Download New Version
page_title: Download New Version | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Download New Version
slug: introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/automatic-latest-version-retrieval
tags: automatic,latest,version,retrieval
published: True
position: 6
---

# Download New Version

With the Telerik Visual Studio Extensions you keep your projects in an up-to-date state. The New Version Downloader tool automatically retrieves the freshest Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX distribution, available on the Telerik website. Running the [Upgrade Wizard]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/upgrade-wizard%}) as a next step makes the task of latest Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX package utilization extremely easy.

Once a day, upon Visual Studio launch, the Telerik ASP.NET AJAX VSExtensions queue the Telerik website for a new version of Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX. A dialog gets displayed when a new version is discovered:

![Newer Version Available Notification](images/introduction-vsx_latestversionacquirer_newversionnotification.png)

>note If you've disabled the notifications, you can use the [Options Dialog]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/visual-studio-extensions-options%}) to activate them again.

Clicking the Get Now button starts the New Version Downloader tool,	prompting for your Telerik credentials and the type of license you own in its first page.	If you do not have a [www.telerik.com](http://www.telerik.com)	account, you can create one through the **Create an account for free** link.

![Latest Version Acquirer: Login](images/introduction-vsx_latestversionacquirer_login.png)

You can use the **Save my password checkbox** to save having to enter your Telerik credentials multiple times. The persistence is done in a secure manner and credentials are saved in a per-user context. This way other users on the machine	that do not have access to your user data from downloading through your account.

If your subscription has expired, you could either proceed with downloading a trial distribution or you	could renew it and initiate the download again. You can check the additional information about the release by clicking the Release Notes link. This will start a browser, navigated to a page with the release notes related to the specific version.

![Latest Version Acquirer: Trial available](images/introduction-vsx_latestversionacquirer_trial.png)

![Latest Version Acquirer: Downloading](images/introduction-vsx_latestversionacquirer_downloading.png)

![Latest Version Acquirer: Download successful](images/introduction-vsx_latestversionacquirer_success.png)

Once the download succeeds, the latest version of the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX will be available for use in the [Upgrade Wizard]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/upgrade-wizard%}) and the [New Project Wizard]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/creation-and-configuration-wizard%}).

>tip The GET LATEST buttons of the [Upgrade Wizard]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/upgrade-wizard%}), [Convert Project Wizard]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/convert-project%}) and [New Project Wizard]({%slug introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/creation-and-configuration-wizard%}) launch the New Version Downloader tool too.

>note The New Version Downloader tool actually downloads the hotfix zip files, containing the latest Telerik binaries	and any resources vital for the Telerik Web Application/Web Site project creation. These get unpacked to the `%appdata%\Telerik\Updates` folder.
>If you find the list of packages offered too long and you don't need the older versions, you can	close Visual Studio and use Windows Explorer to delete these distributions.
