general-information/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/upgrade-wizard.md, before:

---
title: Upgrade Wizard
page_title: Upgrade Wizard | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Upgrade Wizard
slug: introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/upgrade-wizard
tags: upgrade,wizard
published: True
position: 4
---

# Upgrade Wizard

An important feature in the Telerik Visual Studio Extensions is the **Project Upgrade Wizard**. It can facilitate the process of upgrading the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX to the latest version in your project.

To start the Upgrade Wizard go to **Telerik** > **UI for ASP.NET AJAX** > **Upgrade Wizard** in the Visual Studio menu.

On the first screen of the wizard is described what will be upgraded:
>caption Figure 1: The first screen of the Upgrade Wizard

![Upgrade Wizard-first-screen](images/UpgradeWizard-first-screen.png)

In addition to the pure assembly reference change, the Upgrade Wizard provides several important features:

* Check and retrieve the latest available **Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX** release;

* Change the version of **Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX** the project uses.

On the next step the wizard lists all projects from the solution, which use Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX.You can choose which projects will be updated (it is recommended to upgrade all projects to the chosen version),the version which they will be upgraded to and whether or not all binaries should get copied to your solution folder(useful when utilizing a build server or working on a project collaboratively):

>caption Figure 2: Choose the projects the Upgrade Wizard will work on

![introduction-vsx upgradewizard chooseprojects](images/introduction-vsx_upgradewizard_chooseprojects.png)

>note The listed projects target .NET Framework 4.5. If the solution contains any projects which have different target framework, they will be displayed on a separate page. When you complete the wizard all selected projects from the different pages will be updated.

>note The **Add referenced assemblies to solution** option is not available for Visual Studio web site projects or when using GAC based distributions.

The following page of the upgrade wizard suggests you three options for the project resources:

>note In case *non-embedded*  **Skins** and/or **Scripts** folders are detected in the root of a project selected for upgrade they will be automatically updated in accordance with the selected controls version.

>caption Figure 3: Choose which files to upgrade

![introduction-vsx upgradewizard updateresources](images/introduction-vsx_upgradewizard_updateresources.png)

The next screen allows you to update the Visual Studio ToolBox with the newly selected controls, so that you avoid accidental reference change during a control drag and drop:

>caption Figure 4: The Upgrade Wizard can update the toolbox

![Update Toolbox](images/introduction-vsx_upgradewizard_updatetoolbox.png)

The last step suggest you to create a backup of your projects:

>caption Figure 5: The Upgrade Wizard can create a backup of the project(s)

![Create Backup](images/introduction-vsx_upgradewizard_createbackup.png)

After choosing the preferred options and pressing the Finish button, the Upgrade Wizard will replace the existing assemblies in the selected project(s) with the ones from the selected distribution. The wizard will update only assemblies that are currently referenced, e.g. it won't add references to newly introduced assemblies.

>important The Upgrade Wizard will add a reference to Telerik.Web.UI.Skins if the following conditions are met:
* The source project references Telerik assemblies with version lower than Q3 2011
* The target distribution version is greater than Q3 2011
* Telerik.Web.UI.Skins is not referenced


The reason for the described exception is the displacement of the embedded skins from Telerik.Web.UI to Telerik.Web.UI.Skins, introduced with the Q3 2011 release.

>note 
* The Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX distribution selection screen lists all the versions that can be detected automatically. These are versions, installed by using the Windows Installer MSI package (marked with **[Install Folder]** ), versions, downloaded earlier by the Upgrade Wizard (marked with **[Download]** ) and versions, available in the GAC (marked with **[GAC]** ). Hotfixes, downloaded manually cannot be detected. You could use the **Browse** button to navigate to the **Telerik.Web.UI** assembly of a manually downloaded version.
* The Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX version signature is defined by the year, number of Q, month, day and .NET Framework version of the release. For example version 2012.1.215 means Q1 2012, which is released on February 15, 2012. In addition to this signature, you will find an indication whether the release is a trial ( **Trial** ) or purchased ( **Dev** ) version.
* The distribution, downloaded by the Upgrade Wizard contains only the "hotfix" files, e.g. the barebone files, needed for a project to run correctly. It does not contain the documentation or the Live Examples.
* A Visual Studio restart will be required in order to update your toolbox. If the automatic restart fails, a restart should be initiated manually in order to complete the toolbox upgrade.

Commit message:

Update Visual Studio extensoions related articles so as to target the new extensions design. (#138)
* Replaced upgrade wizard's icons. Small text changes.

* Small text changes. Removed information for browsed versions.

* Removed unused image.

* Updated image for upgrade wizard's options.

* Replaced Toolbox configurator image.

* Removed information for Gac into the Toolbox configurator.

* Updated get latest version dialog icons.

* Updated Get Latest version dialog information and replaced one of its icons.

* Updated titles of the articles.

* Updated one of the new project wizard's images.

* Added configure-project and convert-project md files.

* Updated articles' position.

* Updated Create project article.

* Updated a resource into the new project wizard's article.

* Added article for the Configure wizard.

* Updated configure wizard's article.

* Small text change into the configure wizard's article.

* Updated convert project's article.

* Removed unused images.

* Small text change into the convert project wizard's article.

* Updated the name of the Get Latest Version Acquirer to be New Version Downloader.

* Fixed upgrade wizard and configure wizards urls.

* Small order change.

* Small text corrections.

* Updated configure project and convert project slug properties.

* Updated new project wizard screenshot due to the additional Need Help link.

* Updated configure wizards screenshots.

* Updated convert wizard screenshots.

* Updated item template screenshots.

* Updated Upgrade wizard screenshots.

* Updated toolbox configurator screenshots.

* Updated get latest version dialog screenshots.

general-information/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/upgrade-wizard.md, after:

---
title: Upgrade Project 
page_title: Upgrade Project  | UI for ASP.NET AJAX Documentation
description: Upgrade Project 
slug: introduction/radcontrols-for-asp.net-ajax-fundamentals/integration-with-visual-studio/visual-studio-extensions/upgrade-wizard
tags: upgrade,wizard
published: True
position: 4
---

# Upgrade Project

An important feature in the Telerik Visual Studio Extensions is the **Upgrade Project Wizard**. It can facilitate the process of upgrading the Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX to the latest version in your project.

To start the Upgrade Wizard go to **Telerik** > **UI for ASP.NET AJAX** > **Upgrade Wizard** in the Visual Studio menu.

On the first screen of the wizard is described what will be upgraded:
>caption Figure 1: The first screen of the Upgrade Wizard

![Upgrade Wizard-first-screen](images/UpgradeWizard-first-screen.png)

In addition to the pure assembly reference change, the Upgrade Wizard provides several important features:

* Check and retrieve the latest available **Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX** release;

* Change the version of **Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX** the project uses;

On the next step the wizard lists all projects from the solution, which use Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX. You can choose which projects will be updated (it is recommended to upgrade all projects to the chosen version) and the version which they will be upgraded to:

>caption Figure 2: Choose the projects the Upgrade Wizard will work on

![introduction-vsx upgradewizard chooseprojects](images/introduction-vsx_upgradewizard_chooseprojects.png)

>note The listed projects target all of the supported .NET Framework versions. When you complete the wizard all selected projects will be updated.

The following page of the upgrade wizard suggests you three options for the project resources:

>note In case *non-embedded*  **Skins** and/or **Scripts** folders are detected in the root of a project selected for upgrade they will be automatically updated in accordance with the selected controls version.

>caption Figure 3: Choose which files to upgrade

![introduction-vsx upgradewizard updateresources](images/introduction-vsx_upgradewizard_updateresources.png)

In case you select **Do not update** option, nor the existing resources will be updated, neither the new ones will be added. If the **Update where already in use** option is checked, the existing resources will be updated but no new files will be added. And in case the last option is chosen - **Update and include in all applicable projects** - all existing files will be updated and if there are some new resources - they will be added.

The next screen allows you to update the Visual Studio ToolBox with the newly selected controls, so that you avoid accidental reference change during a control drag and drop. It also gives you the ability to choose whether to create a backup of the project or not:

>caption Figure 4: The Upgrade Wizard can update the toolbox and create a backup of the project(s)

![Update Toolbox](images/introduction-vsx_upgradewizard_upgradeoptions.png)

After choosing the preferred options and pressing the Finish button, the Upgrade Wizard will replace the existing assemblies in the selected project(s) with the ones from the selected distribution. The wizard will update only assemblies that are currently referenced, e.g. it won't add references to newly introduced assemblies.

>important The Upgrade Wizard will add a reference to Telerik.Web.UI.Skins if the following conditions are met:
* The source project references Telerik assemblies with version lower than Q3 2011
* The target distribution version is greater than Q3 2011
* Telerik.Web.UI.Skins is not referenced


The reason for the described exception is the displacement of the embedded skins from Telerik.Web.UI to Telerik.Web.UI.Skins, introduced with the Q3 2011 release.

>note 
* The Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX distribution selection screen lists all the versions that can be detected automatically. These are versions, installed by using the Windows Installer MSI package (marked with **[Install Folder]** ) and versions, downloaded earlier by the Upgrade Wizard (marked with **[Download]** ). Hotfixes, downloaded manually cannot be detected.
* The Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX version signature is defined by the year, number of Q, month, day and .NET Framework version of the release. For example version 2012.1.215 means Q1 2012, which is released on February 15, 2012. In addition to this signature, you will find an indication whether the release is a trial ( **Trial** ) or purchased ( **Dev** ) version.
* The distribution, downloaded by the Upgrade Wizard contains only the "hotfix" files, e.g. the barebone files, needed for a project to run correctly. It does not contain the documentation or the Live Examples.
* A Visual Studio restart will be required in order to update your toolbox. If the automatic restart fails, a restart should be initiated manually in order to complete the toolbox upgrade.
